Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Material.SoftMagnetic



Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Material.SoftMagnetic
=================================================

Characteristics mu_r(B) of common soft magnetic materials; hysteresis
neglected

Information
-----------

::

The magnetisation characteristics mu_r(B) of all soft magnetic materials
currently included in this library are approximated with a function.
Each material is characterised by the five parameters of this function.
The approximated characteristics mu_r(B) for most of the ferromagnetic
materials currently included are shown in the plots below (solid lines)
together with the original data points compiled from measurements and
literature. [Approximated magnetization characteristics of selected
steels] [Approximated magnetization characteristics of miscellaneous
soft magnetic materials] [Approximated magnetization characteristics of
included electric sheets]

For the nonlinear curve fit, data points for high flux densities
(approximately B>1T) have been weighted higher than the ones for low
flux densities. This is due to the large impact of saturated
ferromagnetic sections in a magnetic circuit compared to that of
non-saturated sections with relative permeabilities mu_r>>1.

Note that the magnetisation characteristics largely depend on possible
previous machining and on measurement conditions. A virgin material
normally has a considerably higher permeability than the same material
after machining (and packet assembling in case of electric sheets). This
is indicated in the above plots by different magnetisation curves for
similar materials. In most cases, the original data points represent
commutating curves obtained with measurements at 50Hz.

Additional user-specific materials can be defined as needed. This
requires determination of the approximation parameters from the original
data points, preferably with a nonlinear curve fit.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.MaterialPropertiesPackage (Icon for package
containing property classes).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                             Description
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------
  [image10] BaseData                               Coefficients for
                                                   approximation of soft
                                                   magnetic materials

  [image11] Steel                                  Various ferromagnetic
                                                   steels

  [image12] ElectricSheet                          Various electric sheets

  [image13] PureIron                               Pure iron

  [image14] CobaltIron                             Cobalt iron

  [image15] NickelIron                             Nickel iron

  [image16] mu_rApprox                             Approximation of
                                                   relative permeability
                                                   mu_r as a function of
                                                   flux density B for soft
                                                   magnetic materials
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image17] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Material.SoftMagnetic.BaseData
====================================================================

Coefficients for approximation of soft magnetic materials

Information
-----------

::

The parameters needed for approximation of the magnetisation
characteristics of included soft magnetic materials are declared in this
record.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Record (Icon for records).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name  Defau Description
                                               lt    
  -------------------------------------- ----- ----- -----------------------
  RelativePermeability                   mu_i  1     Initial relative
                                                     permeability at B=0 [1]

  MagneticFluxDensity                    B_myM 1     Flux density at maximum
                                         ax          relative permeability
                                                     [T]

  Real                                   c_a   1     Coefficient of
                                                     approximation function

  Real                                   c_b   1     Coefficient of
                                                     approximation function

  Real                                   n     1     Exponent of
                                                     approximation function
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record BaseData 
      "Coefficients for approximation of soft magnetic materials"

      extends Modelica.Icons.Record;

      parameter SI.RelativePermeability mu_i = 1 
        "Initial relative permeability at B=0";
      parameter SI.MagneticFluxDensity B_myMax = 1 
        "Flux density at maximum relative permeability";
      parameter Real c_a = 1 "Coefficient of approximation function";
      parameter Real c_b = 1 "Coefficient of approximation function";
      parameter Real n = 1 "Exponent of approximation function";

    end BaseData;

* * * * *

[image18] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Material.SoftMagnetic.mu_rApprox
======================================================================

Approximation of relative permeability mu_r as a function of flux
density B for soft magnetic materials

Information
-----------

::

The relative permeability mu_r as a function of flux density B for all
soft magnetic materials currently included in this library is
approximated with the following function [Ro00]:

Two of the five parameters of this equation have a physical meaning,
namely the initial relative permeability mu_i at B=0 and the magnetic
flux density at maximum permeability B_myMax. B_N is the flux density
normalized to latter parameter.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name  Defau Description
                                              lt    
  ------------------------------------- ----- ----- -----------------------
  MagneticFluxDensity                   B           Flux density in
                                                    ferromagnetic flux tube
                                                    element [T]

  RelativePermeability                  mu_i        Initial relative
                                                    permeability at B=0 [1]

  MagneticFluxDensity                   B_myM       Flux density at maximum
                                        ax          relative permeability
                                                    [T]

  Real                                  c_a         Coefficient of
                                                    approximation function

  Real                                  c_b         Coefficient of
                                                    approximation function

  Real                                  n           Exponent of
                                                    approximation function
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name Description
  ------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------------
  RelativePermeability                  mu_r Relative magnetic permeability
                                             of ferromagnetic flux tube
                                             element [1]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function mu_rApprox 
      "Approximation of relative permeability mu_r as a function of flux density B for soft magnetic materials"

      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;

      input Modelica.SIunits.MagneticFluxDensity B 
        "Flux density in ferromagnetic flux tube element";
      //Material specific parameter set:
      input Modelica.SIunits.RelativePermeability mu_i 
        "Initial relative permeability at B=0";
      input Modelica.SIunits.MagneticFluxDensity B_myMax 
        "Flux density at maximum relative permeability";
      input Real c_a "Coefficient of approximation function";
      input Real c_b "Coefficient of approximation function";
      input Real n "Exponent of approximation function";

      output Modelica.SIunits.RelativePermeability mu_r 
        "Relative magnetic permeability of ferromagnetic flux tube element";

    protected 
      Real B_N 
        "Flux density B normalized to flux density at maximum relative permeability B_myMax";

    algorithm 
      B_N := abs(B/B_myMax);
      mu_r := 1 + (mu_i-1 + c_a*B_N)/(1 + c_b*B_N + B_N^n);

    end mu_rApprox;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:29:52 2010.
