Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components



Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components
========================================

Functions, connectors and models needed for the media model tests

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                     Description
  ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------
  [image7] FluidPort                       Interface for quasi
                                           one-dimensional fluid flow in a
                                           piping network (incompressible
                                           or compressible, one or more
                                           phases, one or more substances)

  [image8] FluidPort_a                     Fluid connector with filled
                                           icon

  [image9] FluidPort_b                     Fluid connector with outlined
                                           icon

  [image10] PortVolume                     Fixed volume associated with a
                                           port by the finite volume
                                           method

  [image11] FixedMassFlowRate              Ideal pump that produces a
                                           constant mass flow rate from a
                                           large reservoir at fixed
                                           temperature and mass fraction

  [image12] FixedAmbient                   Ambient pressure, temperature
                                           and mass fraction source

  [image13] ShortPipe                      Simple pressure loss in pipe

  PartialTestModel                         Basic test model to test a
                                           medium

  PartialTestModel2                        slightly larger test model to
                                           test a medium
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.FluidPort
==================================================

Interface for quasi one-dimensional fluid flow in a piping network
(incompressible or compressible, one or more phases, one or more
substances)

Information
-----------

::

::

Contents
--------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name   Description
  --------------------------------- ------ --------------------------------
  AbsolutePressure                  p      Pressure in the connection point
                                           [Pa]

  flow MassFlowRate                 m_flow Mass flow rate from the
                                           connection point into the
                                           component [kg/s]

  SpecificEnthalpy                  h      Specific mixture enthalpy in the
                                           connection point [J/kg]

  flow EnthalpyFlowRate             H_flow Enthalpy flow rate into the
                                           component (if m_flow > 0, H_flow
                                           = m_flow*h) [W]

  MassFraction                      Xi[Med Independent mixture mass
                                    ium.nX fractions m_i/m in the
                                    i]     connection point [kg/kg]

  flow MassFlowRate                 mXi_fl Mass flow rates of the
                                    ow[Med independent substances from the
                                    ium.nX connection point into the
                                    i]     component (if m_flow > 0,
                                           mX_flow = m_flow*X) [kg/s]

  ExtraProperty                     C[Medi properties c_i/m in the
                                    um.nC] connection point

  flow ExtraPropertyFlowRate        mC_flo Flow rates of auxiliary
                                    w[Medi properties from the connection
                                    um.nC] point into the component (if
                                           m_flow > 0, mC_flow = m_flow*C)
                                           [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector FluidPort 
      "Interface for quasi one-dimensional fluid flow in a piping network (incompressible or compressible, one or more phases, one or more substances)"

      replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";

      Medium.AbsolutePressure p "Pressure in the connection point";
      flow Medium.MassFlowRate m_flow 
        "Mass flow rate from the connection point into the component";

      Medium.SpecificEnthalpy h "Specific mixture enthalpy in the connection point";
      flow Medium.EnthalpyFlowRate H_flow 
        "Enthalpy flow rate into the component (if m_flow > 0, H_flow = m_flow*h)";

      Medium.MassFraction Xi[Medium.nXi] 
        "Independent mixture mass fractions m_i/m in the connection point";
      flow Medium.MassFlowRate mXi_flow[Medium.nXi] 
        "Mass flow rates of the independent substances from the connection point into the component (if m_flow > 0, mX_flow = m_flow*X)";

      Medium.ExtraProperty C[Medium.nC] "properties c_i/m in the connection point";
      flow Medium.ExtraPropertyFlowRate mC_flow[Medium.nC] 
        "Flow rates of auxiliary properties from the connection point into the component (if m_flow > 0, mC_flow = m_flow*C)";

    end FluidPort;

* * * * *

[image14] Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.FluidPort_a
==============================================================

Fluid connector with filled icon

Information
-----------

::

Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.FluidPort_a

::

Extends from FluidPort (Interface for quasi one-dimensional fluid flow
in a piping network (incompressible or compressible, one or more phases,
one or more substances)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type         Name                                         Default Descrip
                                                                    tion
  ------------ -------------------------------------------- ------- -------
  replaceable  PartialMedium                                Medium  
  package                                                   model   
  Medium                                                            
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents
--------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name   Description
  --------------------------------- ------ --------------------------------
  AbsolutePressure                  p      Pressure in the connection point
                                           [Pa]

  flow MassFlowRate                 m_flow Mass flow rate from the
                                           connection point into the
                                           component [kg/s]

  SpecificEnthalpy                  h      Specific mixture enthalpy in the
                                           connection point [J/kg]

  flow EnthalpyFlowRate             H_flow Enthalpy flow rate into the
                                           component (if m_flow > 0, H_flow
                                           = m_flow*h) [W]

  MassFraction                      Xi[Med Independent mixture mass
                                    ium.nX fractions m_i/m in the
                                    i]     connection point [kg/kg]

  flow MassFlowRate                 mXi_fl Mass flow rates of the
                                    ow[Med independent substances from the
                                    ium.nX connection point into the
                                    i]     component (if m_flow > 0,
                                           mX_flow = m_flow*X) [kg/s]

  ExtraProperty                     C[Medi properties c_i/m in the
                                    um.nC] connection point

  flow ExtraPropertyFlowRate        mC_flo Flow rates of auxiliary
                                    w[Medi properties from the connection
                                    um.nC] point into the component (if
                                           m_flow > 0, mC_flow = m_flow*C)
                                           [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector FluidPort_a "Fluid connector with filled icon"
      extends FluidPort;
    end FluidPort_a;

* * * * *

[image15] Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.FluidPort_b
==============================================================

Fluid connector with outlined icon

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from FluidPort (Interface for quasi one-dimensional fluid flow
in a piping network (incompressible or compressible, one or more phases,
one or more substances)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type         Name                                         Default Descrip
                                                                    tion
  ------------ -------------------------------------------- ------- -------
  replaceable  PartialMedium                                Medium  
  package                                                   model   
  Medium                                                            
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents
--------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name   Description
  --------------------------------- ------ --------------------------------
  AbsolutePressure                  p      Pressure in the connection point
                                           [Pa]

  flow MassFlowRate                 m_flow Mass flow rate from the
                                           connection point into the
                                           component [kg/s]

  SpecificEnthalpy                  h      Specific mixture enthalpy in the
                                           connection point [J/kg]

  flow EnthalpyFlowRate             H_flow Enthalpy flow rate into the
                                           component (if m_flow > 0, H_flow
                                           = m_flow*h) [W]

  MassFraction                      Xi[Med Independent mixture mass
                                    ium.nX fractions m_i/m in the
                                    i]     connection point [kg/kg]

  flow MassFlowRate                 mXi_fl Mass flow rates of the
                                    ow[Med independent substances from the
                                    ium.nX connection point into the
                                    i]     component (if m_flow > 0,
                                           mX_flow = m_flow*X) [kg/s]

  ExtraProperty                     C[Medi properties c_i/m in the
                                    um.nC] connection point

  flow ExtraPropertyFlowRate        mC_flo Flow rates of auxiliary
                                    w[Medi properties from the connection
                                    um.nC] point into the component (if
                                           m_flow > 0, mC_flow = m_flow*C)
                                           [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector FluidPort_b "Fluid connector with outlined icon"
      extends FluidPort;
    end FluidPort_b;

* * * * *

[image16] Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.PortVolume
=============================================================

Fixed volume associated with a port by the finite volume method

Information
-----------

::

This component models the volume of fixed size that is associated with
the fluid port to which it is connected. This means that all medium
properties inside the volume, are identical to the port medium
properties. In particular, the specific enthalpy inside the volume (=
medium.h) is always identical to the specific enthalpy in the port
(port.h = medium.h). Usually, this model is used when discretizing a
component according to the finite volume method into volumes in internal
ports that only store energy and mass and into transport elements that
just transport energy, mass and momentum between the internal ports
without storing these quantities during the transport.

::

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name    Default     Description
  ---------------------------------------- ------- ----------- -------------
  Volume                                   V       1e-6        Fixed size of
                                                               junction
                                                               volume [m3]

  Initial pressure or initial density                          

  Boolean                                  use_p_s true        select
                                           tart                p_start or
                                                               d_start

  AbsolutePressure                         p_start 101325      Initial
                                                               pressure [Pa]

  Density                                  d_start 1           Initial
                                                               density
                                                               [kg/m3]

  Initial temperature or initial specific                      
  enthalpy                                                     

  Boolean                                  use_T_s true        select
                                           tart                T_start or
                                                               h_start

  Temperature                              T_start Modelica.SI Initial
                                                   units.Conve temperature
                                                   rsions...   [K]

  SpecificEnthalpy                         h_start 1.e4        Initial
                                                               specific
                                                               enthalpy
                                                               [J/kg]

  Only for multi-substance flow                                

  MassFraction                             X_start             Initial mass
                                           [Medium             fractions
                                           .nX]                m_i/m [kg/kg]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                        Name Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ----------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------
  FluidPort_a                                                 port 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model PortVolume 
      "Fixed volume associated with a port by the finite volume method"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;

      replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";

      parameter SI.Volume V=1e-6 "Fixed size of junction volume";

      parameter Boolean use_p_start=true "select p_start or d_start";
      parameter Medium.AbsolutePressure p_start = 101325 "Initial pressure";
      parameter Medium.Density d_start=1 "Initial density";
      parameter Boolean use_T_start=true "select T_start or h_start";
      parameter Medium.Temperature T_start = Modelica.SIunits.Conversions.from_degC(20) 
        "Initial temperature";
      parameter Medium.SpecificEnthalpy h_start = 1.e4 "Initial specific enthalpy";
      parameter Medium.MassFraction X_start[Medium.nX] 
        "Initial mass fractions m_i/m";

      FluidPort_a port(redeclare package Medium = Medium);
      Medium.BaseProperties medium(preferredMediumStates=true);
      SI.Energy U "Internal energy of port volume";
      SI.Mass m "Mass of junction volume";
      SI.Mass mXi[Medium.nXi] "Independent substance masses of junction volume";

    initial equation 
      if not Medium.singleState then
        if use_p_start then
           medium.p = p_start;
        else
           medium.d = d_start;
        end if;
      end if;

      if use_T_start then
         medium.T = T_start;
      else
         medium.h = h_start;
      end if;

      medium.Xi = X_start[1:Medium.nXi];
    equation 
      // Connect port to medium variables
         medium.p = port.p;
         medium.h = port.h;
         medium.Xi = port.Xi;

      // Total quantities
         m    = V*medium.d;
         mXi = m*medium.Xi;
         U    = m*medium.u;

      // Mass and energy balance
         der(m)    = port.m_flow;
         der(mXi) = port.mXi_flow;
         der(U)    = port.H_flow;
    end PortVolume;

* * * * *

[image17] Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.FixedMassFlowRate
====================================================================

Ideal pump that produces a constant mass flow rate from a large
reservoir at fixed temperature and mass fraction

Information
-----------

::

::

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                               Name    Default   Description
  ---------------------------------- ------- --------- --------------------
  MassFlowRate                       m_flow            Fixed mass flow rate
                                                       from an infinite
                                                       reservoir to the
                                                       fluid port [kg/s]

  MassFraction                       X_ambie           Ambient mass
                                     nt[Medi           fractions m_i/m of
                                     um.nX]            reservoir [kg/kg]

  Ambient temperature or ambient                       
  specific enthalpy                                    

  Boolean                            use_T_a true      select T_ambient or
                                     mbient            h_ambient

  Temperature                        T_ambie Modelica. Ambient temperature
                                     nt      SIunits.C [K]
                                             onversion 
                                             s...      

  SpecificEnthalpy                   h_ambie 1.e4      Ambient specific
                                     nt                enthalpy [J/kg]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                        Name Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ----------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------
  FluidPort_b                                                 port 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model FixedMassFlowRate 
      "Ideal pump that produces a constant mass flow rate from a large reservoir at fixed temperature and mass fraction"

      parameter Medium.MassFlowRate m_flow 
        "Fixed mass flow rate from an infinite reservoir to the fluid port";

      parameter Boolean use_T_ambient=true "select T_ambient or h_ambient";
      parameter Medium.Temperature T_ambient=
          Modelica.SIunits.Conversions.from_degC(20) "Ambient temperature";
      parameter Medium.SpecificEnthalpy h_ambient=
          1.e4 "Ambient specific enthalpy";
      parameter Medium.MassFraction X_ambient[Medium.nX] 
        "Ambient mass fractions m_i/m of reservoir";

      replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";

      Medium.BaseProperties medium "Medium in the source";
      FluidPort_b port(redeclare package Medium = Medium);
    equation 
       if use_T_ambient then
         medium.T = T_ambient;
       else
         medium.h = h_ambient;
       end if;

       medium.Xi     = X_ambient[1:Medium.nXi];
       medium.p      = port.p;
       port.m_flow   = -m_flow;
       port.mXi_flow = semiLinear(port.m_flow, port.Xi, medium.Xi);
       port.H_flow   = semiLinear(port.m_flow, port.h, medium.h);
    end FixedMassFlowRate;

* * * * *

[image18] Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.FixedAmbient
===============================================================

Ambient pressure, temperature and mass fraction source

Information
-----------

::

Model FixedAmbient_pt defines constant values for ambient conditions:

-   Ambient pressure.
-   Ambient temperature.
-   Ambient mass fractions (only for multi-substance flow).

Note, that ambient temperature and mass fractions have only an effect if
the mass flow is from the ambient into the port. If mass is flowing from
the port into the ambient, the ambient definitions, with exception of
ambient pressure, do not have an effect.

::

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name     Default     Description
  --------------------------------------- -------- ----------- -------------
  Ambient pressure or ambient density                          

  Boolean                                 use_p_am true        select
                                          bient                p_ambient or
                                                               d_ambient

  AbsolutePressure                        p_ambien 101325      Ambient
                                          t                    pressure [Pa]

  Density                                 d_ambien 1           Ambient
                                          t                    density
                                                               [kg/m3]

  Ambient temperature or ambient specific                      
  enthalpy                                                     

  Boolean                                 use_T_am true        select
                                          bient                T_ambient or
                                                               h_ambient

  Temperature                             T_ambien Modelica.SI Ambient
                                          t        units.Conve temperature
                                                   rsions...   [K]

  SpecificEnthalpy                        h_ambien 1.e4        Ambient
                                          t                    specific
                                                               enthalpy
                                                               [J/kg]

  Only for multi-substance flow                                

  MassFraction                            X_ambien             Ambient mass
                                          t[Medium             fractions
                                          .nX]                 m_i/m [kg/kg]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                        Name Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ----------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------
  FluidPort_b                                                 port 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model FixedAmbient 
      "Ambient pressure, temperature and mass fraction source"
      replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";

      parameter Boolean use_p_ambient=true "select p_ambient or d_ambient";
      parameter Medium.AbsolutePressure p_ambient= 101325 "Ambient pressure";
      parameter Medium.Density d_ambient=1 "Ambient density";
      parameter Boolean use_T_ambient=true "select T_ambient or h_ambient";
      parameter Medium.Temperature T_ambient=
          Modelica.SIunits.Conversions.from_degC(20) "Ambient temperature";
      parameter Medium.SpecificEnthalpy h_ambient=
          1.e4 "Ambient specific enthalpy";
      parameter Medium.MassFraction X_ambient[Medium.nX] 
        "Ambient mass fractions m_i/m";

      Medium.BaseProperties medium "Medium in the source";
      FluidPort_b port(redeclare package Medium = Medium);

    equation 
      if use_p_ambient or Medium.singleState then
        medium.p = p_ambient;
      else
        medium.d = d_ambient;
      end if;

      if use_T_ambient then
        medium.T = T_ambient;
      else
        medium.h = h_ambient;
      end if;

      medium.Xi = X_ambient[1:Medium.nXi];

      port.p = medium.p;
      port.H_flow   = semiLinear(port.m_flow, port.h, medium.h);
      port.mXi_flow = semiLinear(port.m_flow, port.Xi, medium.Xi);
    end FixedAmbient;

* * * * *

[image19] Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.ShortPipe
============================================================

Simple pressure loss in pipe

Information
-----------

::

Model ShortPipe defines a simple pipe model with pressure loss due to
friction. It is assumed that no mass or energy is stored in the pipe.

::

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name   Def Description
                                                   aul 
                                                   t   
  ----------------------------------------- ------ --- -------------------
  AbsolutePressure                          dp_nom     Nominal pressure
                                            inal       drop [Pa]

  MassFlowRate                              m_flow     Nominal mass flow
                                            _nomin     rate at nominal
                                            al         pressure drop
                                                       [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                       Name  Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ---------------------------------------------------------- ----- -------
  FluidPort_a                                                port_ 
                                                             a     

  FluidPort_b                                                port_ 
                                                             b     
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ShortPipe "Simple pressure loss in pipe"
       replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";

      parameter Medium.AbsolutePressure dp_nominal(min=1.e-10) 
        "Nominal pressure drop";
      parameter Medium.MassFlowRate m_flow_nominal(min=1.e-10) 
        "Nominal mass flow rate at nominal pressure drop";

      FluidPort_a port_a(redeclare package Medium = Medium);
      FluidPort_b port_b(redeclare package Medium = Medium);
      // Medium.BaseProperties medium_a(p=port_a.p, h=port_a.h, Xi=port_a.Xi)
      //   "Medium properties in port_a";
      // Medium.BaseProperties medium_b(p=port_b.p, h=port_b.h, Xi=port_b.Xi)
      //   "Medium properties in port_b";
      Medium.MassFlowRate m_flow 
        "Mass flow rate from port_a to port_b (m_flow > 0 is design flow direction)";
      Modelica.SIunits.Pressure dp "Pressure drop from port_a to port_b";
    equation 
      /* Handle reverse and zero flow */
      port_a.H_flow   = semiLinear(port_a.m_flow, port_a.h,   port_b.h);
      port_a.mXi_flow = semiLinear(port_a.m_flow, port_a.Xi, port_b.Xi);

      /* Energy, mass and substance mass balance */
      port_a.H_flow + port_b.H_flow = 0;
      port_a.m_flow + port_b.m_flow = 0;
      port_a.mXi_flow + port_b.mXi_flow = zeros(Medium.nXi);

      // Design direction of mass flow rate
      m_flow = port_a.m_flow;

      // Pressure drop
      dp = port_a.p - port_b.p;
      m_flow = (m_flow_nominal/dp_nominal)*dp;
    end ShortPipe;

* * * * *

Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.PartialTestModel
=========================================================

Basic test model to test a medium

Information
-----------

::

::

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name      Default   Description
  --------------------------------- --------- --------- -------------------
  AbsolutePressure                  p_start   Medium.p_ Initial value of
                                              default   pressure [Pa]

  Temperature                       T_start   Medium.T_ Initial value of
                                              default   temperature [K]

  SpecificEnthalpy                  h_start   Medium.h_ Initial value of
                                              default   specific enthalpy
                                                        [J/kg]

  Real                              X_start[M Medium.X_ Initial value of
                                    edium.nX] default   mass fractions
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialTestModel "Basic test model to test a medium"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;

      replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";
      parameter SI.AbsolutePressure p_start = Medium.p_default 
        "Initial value of pressure";
      parameter SI.Temperature T_start = Medium.T_default 
        "Initial value of temperature";
      parameter SI.SpecificEnthalpy h_start = Medium.h_default 
        "Initial value of specific enthalpy";
      parameter Real X_start[Medium.nX] = Medium.X_default 
        "Initial value of mass fractions";

    /*
      parameter SI.AbsolutePressure p_start = 1.0e5 "Initial value of pressure";
      parameter SI.Temperature T_start = 300 "Initial value of temperature";
      parameter SI.Density h_start = 1 "Initial value of specific enthalpy";
      parameter Real X_start[Medium.nX] = Medium.reference_X
        "Initial value of mass fractions";
    */
      PortVolume volume(redeclare package Medium = Medium,
                        p_start=p_start,
                        T_start=T_start,
                        h_start=h_start,
                        X_start = X_start,
                        V=0.1);
      FixedMassFlowRate fixedMassFlowRate(redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        T_ambient=1.2*T_start,
        h_ambient=1.2*h_start,
        m_flow=1,
        X_ambient=0.5*X_start);
      FixedAmbient ambient(
        redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        T_ambient=T_start,
        h_ambient=h_start,
        X_ambient=X_start,
        p_ambient=p_start);
      ShortPipe shortPipe(redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        m_flow_nominal=1,
        dp_nominal=0.1e5);
    equation 
      connect(fixedMassFlowRate.port, volume.port);
      connect(volume.port, shortPipe.port_a);
      connect(shortPipe.port_b, ambient.port);
    end PartialTestModel;

* * * * *

Modelica.Media.Examples.Tests.Components.PartialTestModel2
==========================================================

slightly larger test model to test a medium

Information
-----------

::

::

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name      Default   Description
  --------------------------------- --------- --------- ------------------
  AbsolutePressure                  p_start   1.0e5     Initial value of
                                                        pressure [Pa]

  Temperature                       T_start   300       Initial value of
                                                        temperature [K]

  SpecificEnthalpy                  h_start   1         Initial value of
                                                        specific enthalpy
                                                        [J/kg]

  Real                              X_start[M Medium.re Initial value of
                                    edium.nX] ference_X mass fractions
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialTestModel2 
      "slightly larger test model to test a medium"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;

      replaceable package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model";
      parameter SI.AbsolutePressure p_start = 1.0e5 "Initial value of pressure";
      parameter SI.Temperature T_start = 300 "Initial value of temperature";
      parameter SI.SpecificEnthalpy h_start = 1 
        "Initial value of specific enthalpy";
      parameter Real X_start[Medium.nX] = Medium.reference_X 
        "Initial value of mass fractions";
      PortVolume volume(redeclare package Medium = Medium,
                        p_start=p_start,
                        T_start=T_start,
                        h_start=h_start,
                        X_start = X_start,
                        V=0.1);
      FixedMassFlowRate fixedMassFlowRate(redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        T_ambient=1.2*T_start,
        h_ambient=1.2*h_start,
        m_flow=1,
        X_ambient=0.5*X_start);
      FixedAmbient ambient(
        redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        T_ambient=T_start,
        h_ambient=h_start,
        X_ambient=X_start,
        p_ambient=p_start);
      ShortPipe shortPipe(redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        m_flow_nominal=1,
        dp_nominal=0.1e5);
      PortVolume volume1(
                        redeclare package Medium = Medium,
                        p_start=p_start,
                        T_start=T_start,
                        h_start=h_start,
                        X_start = X_start,
                        V=0.1);
      ShortPipe shortPipe1(
                          redeclare package Medium = Medium,
        m_flow_nominal=1,
        dp_nominal=0.1e5);
    equation 
      connect(fixedMassFlowRate.port, volume.port);
      connect(volume.port, shortPipe.port_a);
      connect(volume1.port, shortPipe1.port_a);
      connect(shortPipe.port_b, volume1.port);
      connect(shortPipe1.port_b, ambient.port);
    end PartialTestModel2;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:26 2010.
