Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational: Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational



Library to model 1-dimensional, rotational mechanical systems

Information
===========

::

Library Rotational is a free Modelica package providing 1-dimensional,
rotational mechanical components to model in a convenient way drive
trains with frictional losses. A typical, simple example is shown in the
next figure:

For an introduction, have especially a look at:

-   Rotational.UsersGuide discusses the most important aspects how to
    use this library.
-   Rotational.Examples contains examples that demonstrate the usage of
    this library.

In version 3.0 of the Modelica Standard Library, the basic design of the
library has changed: Previously, bearing connectors could or could not
be connected. In 3.0, the bearing connector is renamed to "support" and
this connector is enabled via parameter "useSupport". If the support
connector is enabled, it must be connected, and if it is not enabled, it
must not be connected.

In version 3.2 of the Modelica Standard Library, all dissipative
components of the Rotational library got an optional heatPort connector
to which the dissipated energy is transported in form of heat. This
connector is enabled via parameter "useHeatPort". If the heatPort
connector is enabled, it must be connected, and if it is not enabled, it
must not be connected. Independently, whether the heatPort is enabled or
not, the dissipated power is available from the new variable "lossPower"
(which is positive if heat is flowing out of the heatPort). For an
example, see Examples.HeatLosses.

Copyright Â© 1998-2010, Modelica Association and DLR.

This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at your
own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the
Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the disclaimer of
warranty) see Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2 or visit
http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
===============

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                             Description
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------
  [image7] UsersGuide                              User's Guide of
                                                   Rotational Library

  [image8] Examples                                Demonstration examples
                                                   of the components of
                                                   this package

  [image9] Components                              Components for 1D
                                                   rotational mechanical
                                                   drive trains

  [image10] Sensors                                Sensors to measure
                                                   variables in 1D
                                                   rotational mechanical
                                                   components

  [image11] Sources                                Sources to drive 1D
                                                   rotational mechanical
                                                   components

  [image12] Interfaces                             Connectors and partial
                                                   models for 1D
                                                   rotational mechanical
                                                   components

  [image13] Icons                                  Icons for Rotational
                                                   package
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:30:41 2010.
