Modelica.Media.Air.SimpleAir: Modelica.Media.Air.SimpleAir



Air: Simple dry air model (0..100 degC)

Information
===========

::

Simple Ideal gas air model for low temperatures
-----------------------------------------------

This model demonstrats how to use the PartialSimpleIdealGas base class
to build a simple ideal gas model with a limited temperature validity
range.

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium (Medium model of
Ideal gas with constant cp and cv. All other quantities, e.g., transport
properties, are constant.).

Package Content
===============

Name

Description

fluidConstants=FluidConstants(iupacName={"simple air"},
casRegistryNumber={"not a real substance"}, chemicalFormula={"N2, O2"},
structureFormula={"N2, O2"},
molarMass=Modelica.Media.IdealGases.Common.SingleGasesData.N2.MM)

constant data for the fluid

Inherited

cp_const

Constant specific heat capacity at constant pressure

cv_const=cp_const - R_gas

Constant specific heat capacity at constant volume

R_gas

medium specific gas constant

MM_const

Molar mass

eta_const

Constant dynamic viscosity

lambda_const

Constant thermal conductivity

T_min

Minimum temperature valid for medium model

T_max

Maximum temperature valid for medium model

T0=reference_T

Zero enthalpy temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.ThermodynamicState]
ThermodynamicState

Thermodynamic state of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.FluidConstants]
FluidConstants

fluid constants

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.BaseProperties]
BaseProperties

Base properties of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.setState_pTX]
setState_pTX

Return thermodynamic state from p, T, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.setState_phX]
setState_phX

Return thermodynamic state from p, h, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.setState_psX]
setState_psX

Return thermodynamic state from p, s, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.setState_dTX]
setState_dTX

Return thermodynamic state from d, T, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.setSmoothState]
setSmoothState

Return thermodynamic state so that it smoothly approximates: if x > 0
then state_a else state_b

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.pressure]
pressure

Return pressure of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.temperature]
temperature

Return temperature of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.density] density

Return density of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificEnthalpy]
specificEnthalpy

Return specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificInternalEnergy]
specificInternalEnergy

Return specific internal energy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificEntropy]
specificEntropy

Return specific entropy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificGibbsEnergy]
specificGibbsEnergy

Return specific Gibbs energy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificHelmholtzEnergy]
specificHelmholtzEnergy

Return specific Helmholtz energy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.dynamicViscosity]
dynamicViscosity

Return dynamic viscosity

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.thermalConductivity]
thermalConductivity

Return thermal conductivity

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificHeatCapacityCp]
specificHeatCapacityCp

Return specific heat capacity at constant pressure

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificHeatCapacityCv]
specificHeatCapacityCv

Return specific heat capacity at constant volume

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.isentropicExponent]
isentropicExponent

Return isentropic exponent

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.velocityOfSound]
velocityOfSound

Return velocity of sound

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.specificEnthalpy_pTX]
specificEnthalpy_pTX

Return specific enthalpy from p, T, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.temperature_phX]
temperature_phX

Return temperature from p, h, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.density_phX]
density_phX

Return density from p, h, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.isentropicEnthalpy]
isentropicEnthalpy

Return isentropic enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.isobaricExpansionCoefficient]
isobaricExpansionCoefficient

Returns overall the isobaric expansion coefficient beta

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.isothermalCompressibility]
isothermalCompressibility

Returns overall the isothermal compressibility factor

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.density_derp_T]
density_derp_T

Returns the partial derivative of density with respect to pressure at
constant temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.density_derT_p]
density_derT_p

Returns the partial derivative of density with respect to temperature at
constant pressure

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.density_derX]
density_derX

Returns the partial derivative of density with respect to mass fractions
at constant pressure and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialSimpleIdealGasMedium.molarMass]
molarMass

Returns the molar mass of the medium

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.setState_pT] setState_pT

Return thermodynamic state from p and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.setState_ph] setState_ph

Return thermodynamic state from p and h

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.setState_ps] setState_ps

Return thermodynamic state from p and s

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.setState_dT] setState_dT

Return thermodynamic state from d and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.density_ph] density_ph

Return density from p and h

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.temperature_ph]
temperature_ph

Return temperature from p and h

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.pressure_dT] pressure_dT

Return pressure from d and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.specificEnthalpy_dT]
specificEnthalpy_dT

Return specific enthalpy from d and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.specificEnthalpy_ps]
specificEnthalpy_ps

Return specific enthalpy from p and s

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.temperature_ps]
temperature_ps

Return temperature from p and s

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.density_ps] density_ps

Return density from p and s

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.specificEnthalpy_pT]
specificEnthalpy_pT

Return specific enthalpy from p and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialPureSubstance.density_pT] density_pT

Return density from p and T

ThermoStates

Enumeration type for independent variables

mediumName="unusablePartialMedium"

Name of the medium

substanceNames={mediumName}

Names of the mixture substances. Set substanceNames={mediumName} if only
one substance.

extraPropertiesNames=fill("", 0)

Names of the additional (extra) transported properties. Set
extraPropertiesNames=fill("",0) if unused

singleState

= true, if u and d are not a function of pressure

reducedX=true

= true if medium contains the equation sum(X) = 1.0; set reducedX=true
if only one substance (see docu for details)

fixedX=false

= true if medium contains the equation X = reference_X

reference_p=101325

Reference pressure of Medium: default 1 atmosphere

reference_T=298.15

Reference temperature of Medium: default 25 deg Celsius

reference_X=fill(1/nX, nX)

Default mass fractions of medium

p_default=101325

Default value for pressure of medium (for initialization)

T_default=Modelica.SIunits.Conversions.from_degC(20)

Default value for temperature of medium (for initialization)

h_default=specificEnthalpy_pTX(p_default, T_default, X_default)

Default value for specific enthalpy of medium (for initialization)

X_default=reference_X

Default value for mass fractions of medium (for initialization)

nS=size(substanceNames, 1)

Number of substances

nX=nS

Number of mass fractions

nXi=if fixedX then 0 else if reducedX then nS - 1 else nS

Number of structurally independent mass fractions (see docu for details)

nC=size(extraPropertiesNames, 1)

Number of extra (outside of standard mass-balance) transported
properties

C_nominal=1.0e-6*ones(nC)

Default for the nominal values for the extra properties

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.prandtlNumber] prandtlNumber

Return the Prandtl number

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.heatCapacity_cp]
heatCapacity_cp

alias for deprecated name

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.heatCapacity_cv]
heatCapacity_cv

alias for deprecated name

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.beta] beta

alias for isobaricExpansionCoefficient for user convenience

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.kappa] kappa

alias of isothermalCompressibility for user convenience

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_derp_h] density_derp_h

Return density derivative w.r.t. pressure at const specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_derh_p] density_derh_p

Return density derivative w.r.t. specific enthalpy at constant pressure

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.specificEntropy_pTX]
specificEntropy_pTX

Return specific enthalpy from p, T, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_pTX] density_pTX

Return density from p, T, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.temperature_psX]
temperature_psX

Return temperature from p,s, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_psX] density_psX

Return density from p, s, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.specificEnthalpy_psX]
specificEnthalpy_psX

Return specific enthalpy from p, s, and X or Xi

AbsolutePressure

Type for absolute pressure with medium specific attributes

Density

Type for density with medium specific attributes

DynamicViscosity

Type for dynamic viscosity with medium specific attributes

EnthalpyFlowRate

Type for enthalpy flow rate with medium specific attributes

MassFlowRate

Type for mass flow rate with medium specific attributes

MassFraction

Type for mass fraction with medium specific attributes

MoleFraction

Type for mole fraction with medium specific attributes

MolarMass

Type for molar mass with medium specific attributes

MolarVolume

Type for molar volume with medium specific attributes

IsentropicExponent

Type for isentropic exponent with medium specific attributes

SpecificEnergy

Type for specific energy with medium specific attributes

SpecificInternalEnergy

Type for specific internal energy with medium specific attributes

SpecificEnthalpy

Type for specific enthalpy with medium specific attributes

SpecificEntropy

Type for specific entropy with medium specific attributes

SpecificHeatCapacity

Type for specific heat capacity with medium specific attributes

SurfaceTension

Type for surface tension with medium specific attributes

Temperature

Type for temperature with medium specific attributes

ThermalConductivity

Type for thermal conductivity with medium specific attributes

PrandtlNumber

Type for Prandtl number with medium specific attributes

VelocityOfSound

Type for velocity of sound with medium specific attributes

ExtraProperty

Type for unspecified, mass-specific property transported by flow

CumulativeExtraProperty

Type for conserved integral of unspecified, mass specific property

ExtraPropertyFlowRate

Type for flow rate of unspecified, mass-specific property

IsobaricExpansionCoefficient

Type for isobaric expansion coefficient with medium specific attributes

DipoleMoment

Type for dipole moment with medium specific attributes

DerDensityByPressure

Type for partial derivative of density with resect to pressure with
medium specific attributes

DerDensityByEnthalpy

Type for partial derivative of density with resect to enthalpy with
medium specific attributes

DerEnthalpyByPressure

Type for partial derivative of enthalpy with resect to pressure with
medium specific attributes

DerDensityByTemperature

Type for partial derivative of density with resect to temperature with
medium specific attributes

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.Choices] Choices

Types, constants to define menu choices

Types and constants
===================

    constant FluidConstants[nS] fluidConstants=
      FluidConstants(iupacName={"simple air"},
                     casRegistryNumber={"not a real substance"},
                     chemicalFormula={"N2, O2"},
                     structureFormula={"N2, O2"},
                     molarMass=Modelica.Media.IdealGases.Common.SingleGasesData.N2.MM) 
    "constant data for the fluid";

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:31 2010.
