Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources



Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources
========================================

Sources to drive 1D translational mechanical components

Information
-----------

::

This package contains ideal sources to drive 1D mechanical translational
drive trains.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.SourcesPackage (Icon for packages containing
sources).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                                Description
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  [image11] Position                                  Forced movement of a
                                                      flange according to
                                                      a reference position

  [image12] Speed                                     Forced movement of a
                                                      flange according to
                                                      a reference speed

  [image13] Accelerate                                Forced movement of a
                                                      flange according to
                                                      an acceleration
                                                      signal

  [image14] Move                                      Forced movement of a
                                                      flange according to
                                                      a position, velocity
                                                      and acceleration
                                                      signal

  [image15] Force                                     External force
                                                      acting on a drive
                                                      train element as
                                                      input signal

  [image16] Force2                                    Input signal acting
                                                      as torque on two
                                                      flanges

  [image17] LinearSpeedDependentForce                 Linear dependency of
                                                      force versus speed

  [image18] QuadraticSpeedDependentForce              Quadratic dependency
                                                      of force versus
                                                      speed

  [image19] ConstantForce                             Constant force, not
                                                      dependent on speed

  [image20] ConstantSpeed                             Constant speed, not
                                                      dependent on force

  [image21] ForceStep                                 Constant force, not
                                                      dependent on speed
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image22] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Position
===========================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to a reference position

Information
-----------

::

The input signal s_ref defines the reference position in [m]. Flange
flange_b is forced to move relative to the support connector according
to this reference motion. According to parameter exact (default =
false), this is done in the following way:

1.  exact=true
        The reference position is treated exactly. This is only

    possible, if the input signal is defined by an analytical function
    which can be differentiated at least twice. If this prerequisite is
    fulfilled, the Modelica translator will differentiate the input
    signal twice in order to compute the reference acceleration of the
    flange.
2.  exact=false
        The reference position is filtered and the second derivative of

    the filtered curve is used to compute the reference acceleration of
    the flange. This second derivative is not computed by numerical
    differentiation but by an appropriate realization of the filter. For
    filtering, a second order Bessel filter is used. The critical
    frequency (also called cut-off frequency) of the filter is defined
    via parameter f_crit in [Hz]. This value should be selected in such
    a way that it is higher as the essential low frequencies in the
    signal.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one translational 1-dim. shaft
flange and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary
models).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                         Name   Defau Description
                                      lt    
  ---------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------------------
  Boolean                      useSup false = true, if support flange
                               port         enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Boolean                      exact  false true/false exact
                                            treatment/filtering the input
                                            signal

  Frequency                    f_crit 50    if exact=false, critical
                                            frequency of filter to filter
                                            input signal [Hz]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Name Description
  ----------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------
  Flange_b                                        flan Flange of component
                                                  ge   

  Support                                         supp Support/housing of
                                                  ort  component

  input RealInput                                 s_re Reference position
                                                  f    of flange as input
                                                       signal
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Position 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to a reference position"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
        ( s(stateSelect=if exact then StateSelect.default else StateSelect.prefer));
      parameter Boolean exact=false 
        "true/false exact treatment/filtering the input signal";
      parameter SI.Frequency f_crit=50 
        "if exact=false, critical frequency of filter to filter input signal";
      SI.Velocity v(start=0, stateSelect=if exact then StateSelect.default else StateSelect.prefer) 
        "If exact=false, absolute velocity of flange_b else dummy";
      SI.Acceleration a(start=0) 
        "If exact=false, absolute acceleration of flange_b else dummy";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput s_ref 
        "Reference position of flange as input signal";
    protected 
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularFrequency w_crit=2*Modelica.Constants.pi*f_crit 
        "Critical frequency";
      constant Real af=1.3617 "s coefficient of Bessel filter";
      constant Real bf=0.6180 "s*s coefficient of Bessel filter";

    initial equation 
      if not exact then
        s = s_ref;
      end if;
    equation 
      if exact then
        s = s_ref;
        v = 0;
        a = 0;
      else
        // Filter: a = s_ref*S^2/(1 + (af/w_crit)*S + (bf/w_crit^2)*S^2)
        v = der(s);
        a = der(v);
        a = ((s_ref - s)*w_crit - af*v)*(w_crit/bf);
      end if;
    end Position;

* * * * *

[image23] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Speed
========================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to a reference speed

Information
-----------

::

The input signal v_ref defines the reference speed in [m/s]. Flange
flange_b is forced to move relative to the support connector according
to this reference motion. According to parameter exact (default =
false), this is done in the following way:

1.  exact=true
        The reference speed is treated exactly. This is only possible,

    if the input signal is defined by an analytical function which can
    be differentiated at least once. If this prerequisite is fulfilled,
    the Modelica translator will differentiate the input signal once in
    order to compute the reference acceleration of the flange.
2.  exact=false
        The reference speed is filtered and the first derivative of the

    filtered curve is used to compute the reference acceleration of the
    flange. This first derivative is not computed by numerical
    differentiation but by an appropriate realization of the filter. For
    filtering, a first order filter is used. The critical frequency
    (also called cut-off frequency) of the filter is defined via
    parameter f_crit in [Hz]. This value should be selected in such a
    way that it is higher as the essential low frequencies in the
    signal.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one translational 1-dim. shaft
flange and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary
models).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                         Name   Defau Description
                                      lt    
  ---------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------------------
  Boolean                      useSup false = true, if support flange
                               port         enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Boolean                      exact  false true/false exact
                                            treatment/filtering the input
                                            signal

  Frequency                    f_crit 50    if exact=false, critical
                                            frequency of filter to filter
                                            input signal [Hz]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  Flange_b                                         flan Flange of
                                                   ge   component

  Support                                          supp Support/housing of
                                                   ort  component

  input RealInput                                  v_re Reference speed of
                                                   f    flange as input
                                                        signal
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Speed 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to a reference speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
        (       s(start=0, fixed=true, stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer));
      parameter Boolean exact=false 
        "true/false exact treatment/filtering the input signal";
      parameter SI.Frequency f_crit=50 
        "if exact=false, critical frequency of filter to filter input signal";
      SI.Velocity v(stateSelect=if exact then StateSelect.default else StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Absolute velocity of flange_b";
      SI.Acceleration a 
        "If exact=false, absolute acceleration of flange_b else dummy";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput v_ref 
        "Reference speed of flange as input signal";

    protected 
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularFrequency w_crit=2*Modelica.Constants.pi*f_crit 
        "Critical frequency";
    initial equation 
      if not exact then
        v = v_ref;
      end if;
    equation 
      v = der(s);
      if exact then
        v = v_ref;
        a = 0;
      else
        // Filter: a = v_ref/(1 + (1/w_crit)*s)
        a = der(v);
        a = (v_ref - v)*w_crit;
      end if;
    end Speed;

* * * * *

[image24] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Accelerate
=============================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to an acceleration signal

Information
-----------

::

The input signal a in [m/s2] moves the 1D translational flange connector
flange_b with a predefined acceleration, i.e., the flange is forced to
move relative to the support connector with this acceleration. The
velocity and the position of the flange are also predefined and are
determined by integration of the acceleration.

The acceleration "a(t)" can be provided from one of the signal generator
blocks of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Source.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one translational 1-dim. shaft
flange and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary
models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Name Description
  ----------------------------------------------- ---- --------------------
  Flange_b                                        flan Flange of component
                                                  ge   

  Support                                         supp Support/housing of
                                                  ort  component

  input RealInput                                 a_re Absolute
                                                  f    acceleration of
                                                       flange as input
                                                       signal
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Accelerate 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to an acceleration signal"
       extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
        (s(start=0, fixed=true, stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer));
      SI.Velocity v(start=0, fixed=true, stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Absolute velocity of flange_b";
      SI.Acceleration a "Absolute acceleration of flange_b";

      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput a_ref 
        "Absolute acceleration of flange as input signal";

    equation 
      v = der(s);
      a = der(v);
      a = a_ref;
    end Accelerate;

* * * * *

[image25] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Move
=======================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to a position, velocity and
acceleration signal

Information
-----------

::

Flange flange_b is forced to move relative to the support connector with
a predefined motion according to the input signals:

    u[1]: position of flange
    u[2]: velocity of flange
    u[3]: acceleration of flange

The user has to guarantee that the input signals are consistent to each
other, i.e., that u[2] is the derivative of u[1] and that u[3] is the
derivative of u. There are, however, also applications where by purpose
these conditions do not hold. For example, if only the position
dependent terms of a mechanical system shall be calculated, one may
provide position = position(t) and set the velocity and the acceleration
to zero.

The input signals can be provided from one of the signal generator
blocks of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one translational 1-dim. shaft
flange and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary
models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  Flange_b                                    flan Flange of component
                                              ge   

  Support                                     supp Support/housing of
                                              ort  component

  input RealInput                             u[3] Position, velocity and
                                                   acceleration of flange
                                                   as input signals
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Move 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to a position, velocity and acceleration signal"
       extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput u[3] 
        "Position, velocity and acceleration of flange as input signals";
    protected 
      function position
      annotation(derivative=position_der);
         input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
         input Real dummy 
          "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
         output Real q;
      algorithm 
        q :=q_qd_qdd[1];
      end position;

      function position_der
      annotation(derivative=position_der2);
         input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
         input Real dummy 
          "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
         input Real dummy_der;
         output Real qd;
      algorithm 
        qd :=q_qd_qdd[2];
      end position_der;

      function position_der2
         input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
         input Real dummy 
          "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
         input Real dummy_der;
         input Real dummy_der2;
         output Real qdd;
      algorithm 
        qdd :=q_qd_qdd[3];
      end position_der2;
    equation 
      s = position(u,time);
    end Move;

* * * * *

[image26] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Force
========================================================

External force acting on a drive train element as input signal

Information
-----------

::

The input signal "f" in [N] characterizes an external force which acts
(with positive sign) at a flange, i.e., the component connected to the
flange is driven by force f.

Input signal f can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of Modelica.Blocks.Source.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one translational 1-dim. shaft
flange and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary
models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                             flang Flange of
                                                       e     component

  Support                                              suppo Support/housin
                                                       rt    g
                                                             of component

  input RealInput                                      f     Driving force
                                                             as input
                                                             signal
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Force 
      "External force acting on a drive train element as input signal"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput f "Driving force as input signal";

    equation 
      flange.f = -f;
    end Force;

* * * * *

[image27] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Force2
=========================================================

Input signal acting as torque on two flanges

Information
-----------

::

The input signal "f" in [N] characterizes an external force which acts
(with positive sign) at both flanges, i.e., the components connected to
these flanges are driven by force f.

Input signal s can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of Modelica.Blocks.Source.

::

Extends from Translational.Interfaces.PartialTwoFlanges (Component with
two translational 1D flanges ).

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name Description
  -------------------------------------- ---- ----------------------------
  Flange_a                               flan (left) driving flange
                                         ge_a (flange axis directed in to
                                              cut plane, e. g. from left
                                              to right)

  Flange_b                               flan (right) driven flange
                                         ge_b (flange axis directed out of
                                              cut plane)

  input RealInput                        f    Driving force as input
                                              signal
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Force2 "Input signal acting as torque on two flanges"
      extends Translational.Interfaces.PartialTwoFlanges;
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput f "Driving force as input signal";

    equation 
      flange_a.f =  f;
      flange_b.f = -f;
    end Force2;

* * * * *

[image28] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.LinearSpeedDependentForce
============================================================================

Linear dependency of force versus speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of force, linearly dependent on velocity of flange.
    Parameter ForceDirection chooses whether direction of force is the
    same

in both directions of movement or not.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce
(Partial model of a force acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                         Name     Defau Description
                                        lt    
  ---------------------------- -------- ----- -----------------------------
  Boolean                      useSuppo false = true, if support flange
                               rt             enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                              grounded

  Force                        f_nomina       Nominal force (if negative,
                               l              force is acting as load) [N]

  Boolean                      ForceDir true  Same direction of force in
                               ection         both directions of movement

  Velocity                     v_nomina       Nominal speed [m/s]
                               l              
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                             flang Flange of
                                                       e     component

  Support                                              suppo Support/housin
                                                       rt    g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model LinearSpeedDependentForce 
      "Linear dependency of force versus speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Force f_nominal 
        "Nominal force (if negative, force is acting as load)";
      parameter Boolean ForceDirection=true 
        "Same direction of force in both directions of movement";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Velocity v_nominal(min=Modelica.Constants.eps) 
        "Nominal speed";
      Modelica.SIunits.Velocity v 
        "Velocity of flange with respect to support (= der(s))";

    equation 
      v = der(s);
      if ForceDirection then
        f = -f_nominal*abs(v/v_nominal);
      else
        f = -f_nominal*(v/v_nominal);
      end if;
    end LinearSpeedDependentForce;

* * * * *

[image29] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.QuadraticSpeedDependentForce
===============================================================================

Quadratic dependency of force versus speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of force, quadratic dependent on velocity of flange.
    Parameter ForceDirection chooses whether direction of force is the
    same

in both directions of movement or not.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce
(Partial model of a force acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                         Name     Defau Description
                                        lt    
  ---------------------------- -------- ----- -----------------------------
  Boolean                      useSuppo false = true, if support flange
                               rt             enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                              grounded

  Force                        f_nomina       Nominal force (if negative,
                               l              force is acting as load) [N]

  Boolean                      ForceDir true  Same direction of force in
                               ection         both directions of movement

  Velocity                     v_nomina       Nominal speed [m/s]
                               l              
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                             flang Flange of
                                                       e     component

  Support                                              suppo Support/housin
                                                       rt    g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model QuadraticSpeedDependentForce 
      "Quadratic dependency of force versus speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Force f_nominal 
        "Nominal force (if negative, force is acting as load)";
      parameter Boolean ForceDirection=true 
        "Same direction of force in both directions of movement";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Velocity v_nominal(min=Modelica.Constants.eps) 
        "Nominal speed";
      Modelica.SIunits.Velocity v 
        "Velocity of flange with respect to support (= der(s))";
    equation 
      v = der(s);
      if ForceDirection then
        f = -f_nominal*(v/v_nominal)^2;
      else
        f = -f_nominal*smooth(1, if v >= 0 then (v/v_nominal)^2 else -(v/v_nominal)^2);
      end if;
    end QuadraticSpeedDependentForce;

* * * * *

[image30] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.ConstantForce
================================================================

Constant force, not dependent on speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of constant force, not dependent on velocity of flange.
    Positive force acts accelerating.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce
(Partial model of a force acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                        Name    Defau Description
                                      lt    
  --------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------------
  Boolean                     useSupp false = true, if support flange
                              ort           enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Force                       f_const       Nominal force (if negative,
                              ant           force is acting as load) [N]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                             flang Flange of
                                                       e     component

  Support                                              suppo Support/housin
                                                       rt    g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ConstantForce "Constant force, not dependent on speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Force f_constant 
        "Nominal force (if negative, force is acting as load)";
    equation 
      f = -f_constant;
    end ConstantForce;

* * * * *

[image31] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.ConstantSpeed
================================================================

Constant speed, not dependent on force

Information
-----------

::

Model of fixed verlocity of flange, not dependent on force.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce
(Partial model of a force acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                          Name   Defau Description
                                       lt    
  ----------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------
  Boolean                       useSup false = true, if support flange
                                port         enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                             grounded

  Velocity                      v_fixe       Fixed speed (if negative,
                                d            force is acting as load) [m/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                             flang Flange of
                                                       e     component

  Support                                              suppo Support/housin
                                                       rt    g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ConstantSpeed "Constant speed, not dependent on force"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Velocity v_fixed 
        "Fixed speed (if negative, force is acting as load)";
      Modelica.SIunits.Velocity v 
        "Velocity of flange with respect to support (= der(s))";
    equation 
      v = der(s);
      v = v_fixed;
    end ConstantSpeed;

* * * * *

[image32] Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.ForceStep
============================================================

Constant force, not dependent on speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of a force step at time .
    Positive force acts accelerating.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce
(Partial model of a force acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                        Name    Defau Description
                                      lt    
  --------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------------
  Boolean                     useSupp false = true, if support flange
                              ort           enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Force                       stepFor       Height of force step (if
                              ce            negative, force is acting as
                                            load) [N]

  Force                       offsetF       Offset of force [N]
                              orce          

  Time                        startTi 0     Force = offset for time <
                              me            startTime [s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                             flang Flange of
                                                       e     component

  Support                                              suppo Support/housin
                                                       rt    g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ForceStep "Constant force, not dependent on speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.PartialForce;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Force stepForce(start=1) 
        "Height of force step (if negative, force is acting as load)";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Force offsetForce(start=0) "Offset of force";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Time startTime=0 
        "Force = offset for time < startTime";
    equation 
      f = -offsetForce - (if time < startTime then 0 else stepForce);
    end ForceStep;

* * * * *

Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Move.position_der
==========================================================

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Typ Name    Defau Description
  e           lt    
  --- ------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------
  Rea q_qd_qd       Required values for position, speed, acceleration
  l   d[3]          

  Rea dummy         Just to have one input signal that should be
  l                 differentiated to avoid possible problems in the
                    Modelica tool (is not used)

  Rea dummy_d       
  l   er            
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  Type      Name      Description
  --------- --------- ----------------
  Real      qd        

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function position_der
      annotation(derivative=position_der2);
       input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
       input Real dummy 
        "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
       input Real dummy_der;
       output Real qd;
    algorithm 
      qd :=q_qd_qdd[2];
    end position_der;

* * * * *

Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Sources.Move.position_der2
===========================================================

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Typ Name    Defau Description
  e           lt    
  --- ------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------
  Rea q_qd_qd       Required values for position, speed, acceleration
  l   d[3]          

  Rea dummy         Just to have one input signal that should be
  l                 differentiated to avoid possible problems in the
                    Modelica tool (is not used)

  Rea dummy_d       
  l   er            

  Rea dummy_d       
  l   er2           
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  Type      Name      Description
  --------- --------- ----------------
  Real      qdd       

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function position_der2
       input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
       input Real dummy 
        "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
       input Real dummy_der;
       input Real dummy_der2;
       output Real qdd;
    algorithm 
      qdd :=q_qd_qdd[3];
    end position_der2;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:30:51 2010.
