Modelica.Fluid



Modelica.Fluid
==============

Library of 1-dim. thermo-fluid flow models using the Modelica.Media
media description

Information
-----------

::

Library Modelica.Fluid is a free Modelica package providing components
for 1-dimensional thermo-fluid flow in networks of vessels, pipes, fluid
machines, valves and fittings. A unique feature is that the component
equations and the media models as well as pressure loss and heat
transfer correlations are decoupled from each other. All components are
implemented such that they can be used for media from the Modelica.Media
library. This means especially that an incompressible or compressible
medium, a single or a multiple substance medium with one or more phases
might be used.

In the next figure, several features of the library are demonstrated
with a simple heating system with a closed flow cycle. By just changing
one configuration parameter in the system object the equations are
changed between steady-state and dynamic simulation with fixed or
steady-state initial conditions.

With respect to previous versions, the design of the connectors has been
changed in a non-backward compatible way, using the recently developed
concept of stream connectors that results in much more reliable
simulations (see also Stream-Connectors-Overview-Rationale.pdf). This
extension was included in Modelica 3.1. As of Jan. 2009, the stream
concept is supported in Dymola 7.1. It is recommended to use Dymola 7.2
(available since Feb. 2009), or a later Dymola version, since this
version supports a new annotation to connect very conveniently to
vectors of connectors. Other tool vendors will support the stream
concept as well.

The following parts are useful, when newly starting with this library:

-   Modelica.Fluid.UsersGuide.
-   Modelica.Fluid.UsersGuide.ReleaseNotes summarizes the changes of the
    library releases.
-   Modelica.Fluid.Examples contains examples that demonstrate the usage
    of this library.

Licensed by the Modelica Association under the Modelica License 2
    Copyright © 2002-2010, ABB, DLR, Dassault Systèmes AB, Modelon, TU

Braunschweig, TU Hamburg-Harburg, Politecnico di Milano.

This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at your
own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the
Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the disclaimer of
warranty) see Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2 or visit
http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                Description
  ----------------------------------- ------------------------------------
  [image15] UsersGuide                User's Guide

  [image16] Examples                  Demonstration of the usage of the
                                      library

  [image17] System                    System properties and default values
                                      (ambient, flow direction,
                                      initialization)

  [image18] Vessels                   Devices for storing fluid

  [image19] Pipes                     Devices for conveying fluid

  [image20] Machines                  Devices for converting between
                                      energy held in a fluid and
                                      mechanical energy

  [image21] Valves                    Components for the regulation and
                                      control of fluid flow

  [image22] Fittings                  Adaptors for connections of fluid
                                      components and the regulation of
                                      fluid flow

  [image23] Sources                   Define fixed or prescribed boundary
                                      conditions

  [image24] Sensors                   Ideal sensor components to extract
                                      signals from a fluid connector

  [image25] Interfaces                Interfaces for steady state and
                                      unsteady, mixed-phase,
                                      multi-substance, incompressible and
                                      compressible flow

  [image26] Types                     Common types for fluid models

  [image27] Dissipation               Functions for convective heat
                                      transfer and pressure loss
                                      characteristics

  [image28] Utilities                 Utility models to construct fluid
                                      components (should not be used
                                      directly)

  [image29] Icons                     
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image30] Modelica.Fluid.System
===============================

System properties and default values (ambient, flow direction,
initialization)

Information
-----------

::

A system component is needed in each fluid model to provide system-wide
settings, such as ambient conditions and overall modeling assumptions.
The system settings are propagated to the fluid models using the
inner/outer mechanism.

A model should never directly use system parameters. Instead a local
parameter should be declared, which uses the global setting as default.
The only exception currently made is the gravity system.g.

::

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                       Name    Default     Description
  -------------------------- ------- ----------- --------------------------
  Environment                                    

  AbsolutePressure           p_ambie 101325      Default ambient pressure
                             nt                  [Pa]

  Temperature                T_ambie 293.15      Default ambient
                             nt                  temperature [K]

  Acceleration               g       Modelica.Co Constant gravity
                                     nstants.g_n acceleration [m/s2]

  Assumptions                                    

  Boolean                    allowFl true        = false to restrict to
                             owRever             design flow direction
                             sal                 (port_a -> port_b)

  Dynamics                                       

  Dynamics                   energyD Modelica.Fl Default formulation of
                             ynamics uid.Types.D energy balances
                                     ynamic...   

  Dynamics                   massDyn energyDynam Default formulation of
                             amics   ics         mass balances

  Dynamics                   momentu Modelica.Fl Default formulation of
                             mDynami uid.Types.D momentum balances, if
                             cs      ynamic...   options available

  Initialization                                 

  MassFlowRate               m_flow_ 0           Default start value for
                             start               mass flow rates [kg/s]

  AbsolutePressure           p_start p_ambient   Default start value for
                                                 pressures [Pa]

  Temperature                T_start T_ambient   Default start value for
                                                 temperatures [K]

  Advanced                                       

  MassFlowRate               m_flow_ 0.01        Default small laminar mass
                             small               flow rate for
                                                 regularization of zero
                                                 flow [kg/s]

  AbsolutePressure           dp_smal 1           Default small pressure
                             l                   drop for regularization of
                                                 laminar and zero flow [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model System 
      "System properties and default values (ambient, flow direction, initialization)"

      package Medium = Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium 
        "Medium model for default start values";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AbsolutePressure p_ambient=101325 
        "Default ambient pressure";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Temperature T_ambient=293.15 
        "Default ambient temperature";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Acceleration g=Modelica.Constants.g_n 
        "Constant gravity acceleration";

      // Assumptions
      parameter Boolean allowFlowReversal = true 
        "= false to restrict to design flow direction (port_a -> port_b)";
      parameter Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics energyDynamics=
        Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics.DynamicFreeInitial 
        "Default formulation of energy balances";
      parameter Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics massDynamics=
        energyDynamics "Default formulation of mass balances";
      final parameter Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics substanceDynamics=
        massDynamics "Default formulation of substance balances";
      final parameter Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics traceDynamics=
        massDynamics "Default formulation of trace substance balances";
      parameter Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics momentumDynamics=
        Modelica.Fluid.Types.Dynamics.SteadyState 
        "Default formulation of momentum balances, if options available";

      // Initialization
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.MassFlowRate m_flow_start = 0 
        "Default start value for mass flow rates";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AbsolutePressure p_start = p_ambient 
        "Default start value for pressures";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Temperature T_start = T_ambient 
        "Default start value for temperatures";

      // Advanced
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.MassFlowRate m_flow_small(min=0) = 0.01 
        "Default small laminar mass flow rate for regularization of zero flow";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AbsolutePressure dp_small(min=0) = 1 
        "Default small pressure drop for regularization of laminar and zero flow";


    end System;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:30:52 2010.
