Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe



Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe
====================================================

Package for pressure loss calculation of straight pipes

Information
-----------

::

Straight Pipe

Laminar flow

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for laminar flow regime
of single-phase fluid flow only. See more information.

Turbulent flow

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for turbulent flow
regime of single-phase fluid flow only considering surface roughness.
See more information.

Overall flow

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for laminar or turbulent
flow regime of single-phase fluid flow only considering surface
roughness. See more information.

Two phase overall flow

Calculation of pressure loss for two phase flow in a horizontal or
vertical straight pipe for an overall flow regime considering
frictional, momentum and geodetic pressure loss. See more information.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.VariantsPackage (Icon for package containing
variants).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                              Description
  ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------
  [image15] dp_laminar_DP                           Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe |
                                                    calculate pressure
                                                    loss| laminar flow
                                                    regime
                                                    (Hagen-Poiseuille)

  [image16] dp_laminar_MFLOW                        Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe |
                                                    calculate mass flow
                                                    rate | laminar flow
                                                    regime
                                                    (Hagen-Poiseuille)

  [image17] dp_laminar_IN_con                       Input record for
                                                    function dp_laminar_DP
                                                    and dp_laminar_MFLOW

  [image18] dp_laminar_IN_var                       Input record for
                                                    function dp_laminar_DP
                                                    and dp_laminar_MFLOW

  [image19] dp_overall_DP                           Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe |
                                                    calculate pressure
                                                    loss | overall flow
                                                    regime | surface
                                                    roughness

  [image20] dp_overall_MFLOW                        Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe |
                                                    calculate mass flow
                                                    rate | overall flow
                                                    regime | surface
                                                    roughness

  [image21] dp_overall_IN_con                       Input record for
                                                    function dp_overall_DP
                                                    and dp_overall_MFLOW

  [image22] dp_overall_IN_var                       Input record for
                                                    function dp_overall_DP
                                                    and dp_overall_MFLOW

  [image23] dp_turbulent_DP                         Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe |
                                                    calculate pressure
                                                    loss | turbulent flow
                                                    regime | surface
                                                    roughness

  [image24] dp_turbulent_MFLOW                      Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe |
                                                    calculate mass flow
                                                    rate | turbulent flow
                                                    regime | surface
                                                    roughness

  [image25] dp_turbulent_IN_con                     Input record for
                                                    function
                                                    dp_turbulent_DP and
                                                    dp_turbulent_MFLOW

  [image26] dp_turbulent_IN_var                     Input record for
                                                    function
                                                    dp_turbulent_DP and
                                                    dp_turbulent_MFLOW

  [image27] dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP                   Pressure loss of
                                                    straight pipe for two
                                                    phase flow | calculate
                                                    (frictional, momentum,
                                                    geodetic) pressure
                                                    loss

  [image28] dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_con               Input record for
                                                    function
                                                    dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP

  [image29] dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_var               Input record for
                                                    function
                                                    dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_DP
==================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate pressure loss| laminar flow
regime (Hagen-Poiseuille)

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for laminar flow regime
of an incompressible and single-phase fluid flow only.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the incompressible
case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) in
the used model and the corresponding pressure loss (DP) has to be
calculated. On the other hand the function dp_laminar_MFLOW is
numerically best used for the compressible case if the pressure loss
(dp) is known (out of pressures as state variable) and the mass flow
rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- --------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_laminar_IN_con                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_laminar_DP

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_laminar_IN_var                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_laminar_DP

  Input                                                     

  MassFlowRate                                      m_f     Mass flow rate
                                                    low     [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name  Description
  --------------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------
  Pressure                                DP    Output for function
                                                dp_laminar_DP [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_laminar_DP 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate pressure loss| laminar flow regime (Hagen-Poiseuille)"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_laminar_DP";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_laminar_DP";
      input SI.MassFlowRate m_flow "Mass flow rate";

      //output variables
      output SI.Pressure DP "Output for function dp_laminar_DP";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      SI.Diameter d_hyd=IN_con.d_hyd "Hydraulic diameter";
      SI.Area A_cross=PI*IN_con.d_hyd^2/4 "Circular cross sectional area";

      SI.Velocity velocity=m_flow/max(MIN, IN_var.rho*A_cross) "Mean velocity";

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      DP := 32*IN_var.eta*velocity*IN_con.L/d_hyd^2;
    end dp_laminar_DP;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_MFLOW
=====================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate mass flow rate | laminar flow
regime (Hagen-Poiseuille)

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for laminar flow regime
of an incompressible and single-phase fluid flow only.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the compressible
case, where the pressure loss (dp) is known (out of pressures as state
variable) in the used model and the corresponding mass flow rate
(M_FLOW) has to be calculated. On the other hand the function
dp_laminar_DP is numerically best used for the incompressible case if
the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) and the
pressure loss (DP) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- ---------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_laminar_IN_con                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_laminar_MFLO
                                                            W

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_laminar_IN_var                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_laminar_MFLO
                                                            W

  Input                                                     

  Pressure                                          dp      Pressure loss
                                                            [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name   Description
  --------------------------------------- ------ --------------------------
  MassFlowRate                            M_FLOW Output for function
                                                 dp_laminar_MFLOW [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_laminar_MFLOW 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate mass flow rate | laminar flow regime (Hagen-Poiseuille)"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_laminar_MFLOW";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_laminar_MFLOW";
      input SI.Pressure dp "Pressure loss";

      //output variables
      output SI.MassFlowRate M_FLOW "Output for function dp_laminar_MFLOW";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      SI.Diameter d_hyd=max(MIN, IN_con.d_hyd) "Hydraulic diameter";
      SI.Area A_cross=PI*IN_con.d_hyd^2/4 "Circular cross sectional area";

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      M_FLOW := IN_var.rho*A_cross*(dp*d_hyd^2/(32*IN_var.eta*IN_con.L));
    end dp_laminar_MFLOW;

* * * * *

[image30] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_IN_con
================================================================================

Input record for function dp_laminar_DP and dp_laminar_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_laminar_DP and dp_laminar_MFLOW.

::

Extends from Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.StraightPipe (Input for
straight pipe).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name   Default Description
  ---------------------------------------- ------ ------- ----------------
  Straight pipe                                           

  Diameter                                 d_hyd  0.1     Hydraulic
                                                          diameter [m]

  Length                                   L      1       Length [m]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_laminar_IN_con 
      "Input record for function dp_laminar_DP and dp_laminar_MFLOW"
      extends Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;


    end dp_laminar_IN_con;

* * * * *

[image31] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_IN_var
================================================================================

Input record for function dp_laminar_DP and dp_laminar_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_laminar_DP and dp_laminar_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var
(Input record for function dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Defaul Description
                                                 t      
  ----------------------------------------- ---- ------ -------------------
  Fluid properties                                      

  DynamicViscosity                          eta         Dynamic viscosity
                                                        of fluid [Pa.s]

  Density                                   rho         Density of fluid
                                                        [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_laminar_IN_var 
      "Input record for function dp_laminar_DP and dp_laminar_MFLOW"

      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var;


    end dp_laminar_IN_var;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_DP
==================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate pressure loss | overall flow
regime | surface roughness

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for overall flow regime
of an incompressible and single-phase fluid flow only considering
surface roughness.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the incompressible
case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) in
the used model and the corresponding pressure loss (DP) has to be
calculated. On the other hand the function dp_overall_MFLOW is
numerically best used for the compressible case if the pressure loss
(dp) is known (out of pressures as state variable) and the mass flow
rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- --------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_overall_IN_con                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_overall_DP

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_overall_IN_var                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_overall_DP

  Input                                                     

  MassFlowRate                                      m_f     Mass flow rate
                                                    low     [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name  Description
  --------------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------
  Pressure                                DP    Output for function
                                                dp_overall_DP [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_overall_DP 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate pressure loss | overall flow regime | surface roughness"
      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;
      import SMOOTH = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.Stepsmoother;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_overall_DP";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_overall_DP";
      input SI.MassFlowRate m_flow "Mass flow rate";

      //output variables
      output SI.Pressure DP "Output for function dp_overall_DP";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      SI.Diameter d_hyd=max(MIN, IN_con.d_hyd) "Hydraulic diameter";
      SI.Area A_cross=PI*IN_con.d_hyd^2/4 "Circular cross sectional area";
      Real k=max(MIN, abs(IN_con.K)/IN_con.d_hyd) "Relative roughness";
      SI.Length perimeter=PI*IN_con.d_hyd "Perimeter";

      //SOURCE_1: p.81, fig. 2-3, sec 21-22: definition of flow regime boundaries
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_min=1e3 "Minimum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_max=2090*(1/max(0.007, k))^0.0635 
        "Maximum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_leave=min(Re_lam_max, max(Re_lam_min, 754*
          Modelica.Math.exp(if k <= 0.007 then 0.0065/0.007 else 0.0065/k))) 
        "Start of transition regime for increasing Reynolds number (leaving laminar regime)";

      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re=
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.ReynoldsNumber(
          A_cross,
          perimeter,
          IN_var.rho,
          IN_var.eta,
          m_flow);

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      DP := SMOOTH(
              Re_lam_min,
              Re_lam_max,
              Re)*Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_DP(
              IN_con,
              IN_var,
              m_flow) + SMOOTH(
              Re_lam_max,
              Re_lam_min,
              Re)*Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_DP(
              IN_con,
              IN_var,
              m_flow);
    end dp_overall_DP;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_MFLOW
=====================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate mass flow rate | overall flow
regime | surface roughness

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for overall flow regime
of an incompressible and single-phase fluid flow only considering
surface roughness.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the compressible
case, where the pressure loss (dp) is known (out of pressures as state
variable) in the used model and the corresponding mass flow rate
(M_FLOW) has to be calculated. On the other hand the function
dp_overall_DP is numerically best used for the incompressible case if
the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) and the
pressure loss (DP) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- ---------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_overall_IN_con                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_overall_MFLO
                                                            W

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_overall_IN_var                                 IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_overall_MFLO
                                                            W

  Input                                                     

  Pressure                                          dp      Pressure loss
                                                            [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name   Description
  --------------------------------------- ------ --------------------------
  MassFlowRate                            M_FLOW Output of function
                                                 dp_overall_MFLOW [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_overall_MFLOW 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate mass flow rate | overall flow regime | surface roughness"
      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;
      import SMOOTH = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.Stepsmoother;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_overall_MFLOW";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_overall_MFLOW";
      input SI.Pressure dp "Pressure loss";

      //output variables
      output SI.MassFlowRate M_FLOW "Output of function dp_overall_MFLOW";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      SI.Diameter d_hyd=max(MIN, IN_con.d_hyd) "Hydraulic diameter";
      SI.Area A_cross=max(MIN, PI*IN_con.d_hyd^2/4) "Circular cross sectional area";
      Real k=max(MIN, abs(IN_con.K)/IN_con.d_hyd) "Relative roughness";

      //SOURCE_1: p.81, fig. 2-3, sec 21-22: definition of flow regime boundaries
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_min=1e3 "Minimum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_max=2090*(1/max(0.007, k))^0.0635 
        "Maximum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_turb_min=4e3 
        "Minimum Reynolds number for turbulent regime";

      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_leave=min(Re_lam_max, max(Re_lam_min, 754*
          Modelica.Math.exp(if k <= 0.007 then 0.0065/0.007 else 0.0065/k))) 
        "Start of transition regime for increasing Reynolds number (leaving laminar regime)";

      //determining darcy friction factor out of pressure loss calulation for straight pipe:
      //dp = lambda_FRI*L/d_hyd*(rho/2)*velocity^2 and assuming lambda_FRI == lambda_FRI_calc/Re^2
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI_calc=2*abs(dp)*d_hyd^3*IN_var.rho/(IN_con.L
          *IN_var.eta^2) "Adapted Darcy friction factor";

      //SOURCE_3: p.Lab 1, eq. 5: determine Re assuming laminar regime (Blasius)
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam=lambda_FRI_calc/64 
        "Reynolds number assuming laminar regime";

      //SOURCE_3: p.Lab 2, eq. 10: determine Re assuming turbulent regime (Colebrook-White)
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_turb=if IN_con.roughness == 1 then (max(MIN,
          lambda_FRI_calc)/0.3164)^(1/1.75) else -2*sqrt(max(lambda_FRI_calc, MIN))
          *Modelica.Math.log10(2.51/sqrt(max(lambda_FRI_calc, MIN)) + k/3.7) 
        "Reynolds number assuming turbulent regime";

      //determine actual flow regime
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_check=if Re_lam < Re_lam_leave then Re_lam else Re_turb;
      //determine Re for transition regime
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_trans=if Re_lam >= Re_lam_leave then 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.CubicInterpolation_DP(
          Re_check,
          Re_lam_leave,
          Re_turb_min,
          k,
          lambda_FRI_calc) else 0;
      //determine actual Re
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re=if Re_lam < Re_lam_leave then Re_lam else if Re_turb >
          Re_turb_min then Re_turb else Re_trans;

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      M_FLOW := SMOOTH(
              Re_lam_min,
              Re_turb,
              Re)*Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_laminar_MFLOW(
              IN_con,
              IN_var,
              dp) + SMOOTH(
              Re_turb,
              Re_lam_min,
              Re)*Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_MFLOW(
              IN_con,
              IN_var,
              dp);
    end dp_overall_MFLOW;

* * * * *

[image32] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_con
================================================================================

Input record for function dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW.

::

Extends from dp_turbulent_IN_con (Input record for function
dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name Default     Description
  -------------------------------------- ---- ----------- ------------------
  Straight pipe                                           

  Roughness                              roug Dissipation Choice of
                                         hnes .Utilities. considering
                                         s    Types....   surface roughness

  Diameter                               d_hy 0.1         Hydraulic diameter
                                         d                [m]

  Length                                 L    1           Length [m]

  Length                                 K    0           Roughness (average
                                                          height of surface
                                                          asperities) [m]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_overall_IN_con 
      "Input record for function dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW"

      //straight pipe variables
      extends dp_turbulent_IN_con;


    end dp_overall_IN_con;

* * * * *

[image33] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var
================================================================================

Input record for function dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.PressureLoss (Base
record for fluid properties for pressure loss).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Defaul Description
                                                 t      
  ----------------------------------------- ---- ------ -------------------
  Fluid properties                                      

  DynamicViscosity                          eta         Dynamic viscosity
                                                        of fluid [Pa.s]

  Density                                   rho         Density of fluid
                                                        [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_overall_IN_var 
      "Input record for function dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW"

      //fluid property variables
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.PressureLoss;


    end dp_overall_IN_var;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_DP
====================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate pressure loss | turbulent
flow regime | surface roughness

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for turbulent flow
regime of an incompressible and single-phase fluid flow only considering
surface roughness.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the incompressible
case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) in
the used model and the corresponding pressure loss (DP) has to be
calculated. On the other hand the function dp_turbulent_MFLOW is
numerically best used for the compressible case if the pressure loss
(dp) is known (out of pressures as state variable) and the mass flow
rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- --------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_turbulent_IN_con                               IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_turbulent_D
                                                            P

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_turbulent_IN_var                               IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_turbulent_D
                                                            P

  Input                                                     

  MassFlowRate                                      m_f     Mass flow rate
                                                    low     [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name  Description
  -------------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------
  Pressure                               DP    Output for function
                                               dp_turbulent_DP [Pa]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_turbulent_DP 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate pressure loss | turbulent flow regime | surface roughness"

      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.
      //SOURCE_2: Miller, D.S.: INTERNAL FLOW SYSTEMS, 2nd edition, 1984.
      //SOURCE_3: VDI-Waermeatlas, 9th edition, Springer-Verlag, 2002.
      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_turbulent_DP";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_turbulent_DP";
      input SI.MassFlowRate m_flow "Mass flow rate";

      //output variables
      output SI.Pressure DP "Output for function dp_turbulent_DP";

    protected 
      type TYP1 = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Types.Roughness;

      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_min=1;
      SI.Velocity v_min=Re_min*IN_var.eta/(IN_var.rho*IN_con.d_hyd);

      SI.Diameter d_hyd=IN_con.d_hyd "Hydraulic diameter";
      SI.Area A_cross=PI*IN_con.d_hyd^2/4 "Circular cross sectional area";
      Real k=max(MIN, abs(IN_con.K)/IN_con.d_hyd) "Relative roughness";

      //SOURCE_1: p.81, fig. 2-3, sec 21-22: definition of flow regime boundaries
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_min=1e3 "Minimum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_max=2090*(1/max(0.007, k))^0.0635 
        "Maximum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_turb_min=4e3 
        "Minimum Reynolds number for turbulent regime";

      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_leave=min(Re_lam_max, max(Re_lam_min, 754*
          Modelica.Math.exp(if k <= 0.007 then 0.0065/0.007 else 0.0065/k))) 
        "Start of transition regime for increasing Reynolds number (leaving laminar regime)";

      SI.Velocity velocity=m_flow/(IN_var.rho*A_cross) "Mean velocity";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re=max(Re_min, IN_var.rho*abs(velocity)*d_hyd/IN_var.eta);

      //SOURCE_2: p.191, eq. 8.4: determining darcy friction factor
      //assuming lambda_FRI == lambda_FRI_calc/Re^2
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI_smooth=0.3164*Re^(1.75) 
        "Darcy friction factor neglecting surface roughness (Blasius)";
      //here with lambda_FRI_rough == lambda_FRI*Re^2
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI_rough=0.25*(max(Re, Re_lam_leave)/
          Modelica.Math.log10(k/3.7 + 5.74/max(Re, Re_lam_leave)^0.9))^2 
        "Darcy friction factor considering surface roughness";
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI=if IN_con.roughness == TYP1.Neglected then 
                lambda_FRI_smooth else lambda_FRI_rough "Darcy friction factor";
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI_calc=if Re < Re_lam_leave then 64/Re else 
          if Re > Re_turb_min then lambda_FRI/Re^2 else 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.CubicInterpolation_MFLOW(
          Re,
          Re_lam_leave,
          Re_turb_min,
          k)/Re^2 "Darcy friction factor";

      TYP.PressureLossCoefficient zeta_TOT=lambda_FRI_calc*IN_con.L/d_hyd 
        "Pressure loss coefficient";

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      DP := zeta_TOT*(IN_var.rho/2)*
        Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.SmoothPower(
              velocity,
              v_min,
              2);
    end dp_turbulent_DP;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_MFLOW
=======================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate mass flow rate | turbulent
flow regime | surface roughness

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in a straight pipe for turbulent flow
regime of an incompressible and single-phase fluid flow only considering
surface roughness.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the compressible
case if the pressure loss (dp) is known (out of pressures as state
variable) and the mass flow rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. On the
other hand the function dp_turbulent_DP is numerically best used for the
incompressible case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as
state variable) in the used model and the corresponding pressure loss
(DP) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- ---------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_turbulent_IN_con                               IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_turbulent_MF
                                                            LOW

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_turbulent_IN_var                               IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_turbulent_MF
                                                            LOW

  Input                                                     

  Pressure                                          dp      Pressure loss
                                                            [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Name    Description
  ----------------------------------------------- ------- ----------------
  MassFlowRate                                    M_FLOW  Mass flow rate
                                                          [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_turbulent_MFLOW 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe | calculate mass flow rate | turbulent flow regime | surface roughness"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.
      //SOURCE_2: Miller, D.S.: INTERNAL FLOW SYSTEMS, 2nd edition, 1984.
      //SOURCE_3: VDI-Waermeatlas, 9th edition, Springer-Verlag, 2002.

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;
      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_turbulent_MFLOW";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_turbulent_MFLOW";
      input SI.Pressure dp "Pressure loss";

      //output variables
      output SI.MassFlowRate M_FLOW "Mass flow rate";

    protected 
      type TYP1 = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Types.Roughness;

      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_min=1;

      SI.Diameter d_hyd=max(MIN, IN_con.d_hyd) "Hydraulic diameter";
      SI.Area A_cross=PI*IN_con.d_hyd^2/4 "Circular cross sectional area";
      Real k=max(MIN, abs(IN_con.K)/IN_con.d_hyd) "Relative roughness";

      //SOURCE_1: p.81, fig. 2-3, sec 21-22: definition of flow regime boundaries
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_min=1e3 "Minimum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_max=2090*(1/max(0.007, k))^0.0635 
        "Maximum Reynolds number for laminar regime";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_turb_min=4e3 
        "Minimum Reynolds number for turbulent regime";

      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam_leave=min(Re_lam_max, max(Re_lam_min, 754*
          Modelica.Math.exp(if k <= 0.007 then 0.0065/0.007 else 0.0065/k))) 
        "Start of transition regime for increasing Reynolds number (leaving laminar regime)";

      //determining darcy friction factor out of pressure loss calulation for straight pipe:
      //dp = lambda_FRI*L/d_hyd*(rho/2)*velocity^2 and assuming lambda_FRI == lambda_FRI_calc/Re^2
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI_calc=2*abs(dp)*d_hyd^3*IN_var.rho/(IN_con.L
          *IN_var.eta^2) "Adapted Darcy friction factor";

      //SOURCE_3: p.Lab 1, eq. 5: determine Re assuming laminar regime (Hagen-Poiseuille)
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lam=lambda_FRI_calc/64 
        "Reynolds number assuming laminar regime";

      //SOURCE_3: p.Lab 2, eq. 10: determine Re assuming turbulent regime (Colebrook-White)
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_turb=if IN_con.roughness == TYP1.Neglected then (max(MIN,
          lambda_FRI_calc)/0.3164)^(1/1.75) else -2*sqrt(max(lambda_FRI_calc, MIN))
          *Modelica.Math.log10(2.51/sqrt(max(lambda_FRI_calc, MIN)) + k/3.7) 
        "Reynolds number assuming turbulent regime";

      //determine actual flow regime
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_check=if Re_lam < Re_lam_leave then Re_lam else Re_turb;
      //determine Re for transition regime
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_trans=if Re_lam >= Re_lam_leave then 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.CubicInterpolation_DP(
          Re_check,
          Re_lam_leave,
          Re_turb_min,
          k,
          lambda_FRI_calc) else 0;
      //determine actual Re
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re=if Re_lam < Re_lam_leave then Re_lam else if Re_turb >
          Re_turb_min then Re_turb else Re_trans;

      //determine velocity
      SI.Velocity velocity=(if dp >= 0 then Re else -Re)*IN_var.eta/(IN_var.rho*
          d_hyd) "Mean velocity";

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      M_FLOW := IN_var.rho*A_cross*velocity;
    end dp_turbulent_MFLOW;

* * * * *

[image34] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_IN_con
==================================================================================

Input record for function dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW.

::

Extends from Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.StraightPipe (Input for
straight pipe).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name Default     Description
  -------------------------------------- ---- ----------- ------------------
  Straight pipe                                           

  Roughness                              roug Dissipation Choice of
                                         hnes .Utilities. considering
                                         s    Types....   surface roughness

  Diameter                               d_hy 0.1         Hydraulic diameter
                                         d                [m]

  Length                                 L    1           Length [m]

  Length                                 K    0           Roughness (average
                                                          height of surface
                                                          asperities) [m]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_turbulent_IN_con 
      "Input record for function dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW"

      Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Types.Roughness roughness=Dissipation.Utilities.Types.Roughness.Neglected 
        "Choice of considering surface roughness";

      extends Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.StraightPipe;

        SI.Length K=0 "Roughness (average height of surface asperities)";

    end dp_turbulent_IN_con;

* * * * *

[image35] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_turbulent_IN_var
==================================================================================

Input record for function dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var
(Input record for function dp_overall_DP and dp_overall_MFLOW).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Defaul Description
                                                 t      
  ----------------------------------------- ---- ------ -------------------
  Fluid properties                                      

  DynamicViscosity                          eta         Dynamic viscosity
                                                        of fluid [Pa.s]

  Density                                   rho         Density of fluid
                                                        [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_turbulent_IN_var 
      "Input record for function dp_turbulent_DP and dp_turbulent_MFLOW"

      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_overall_IN_var;

    end dp_turbulent_IN_var;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP
==========================================================================

Pressure loss of straight pipe for two phase flow | calculate
(frictional, momentum, geodetic) pressure loss

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss for two phase flow in a horizontal or
vertical straight pipe for an overall flow regime considering
frictional, momentum and geodetic pressure loss.

Generally the pressure loss for two phase flow in a horizontal or a
vertical straight pipe can be calculated for the following fluid flow
regimes:

Horizontal fluid flow [(a) bubble flow, (b) stratified flow, (c) wavy
flow, (d) slug flow, (e) annular flow]:

Vertical fluid flow [(a) bubble flow, (b) plug slug flow, (c) foam flow,
(d) annular streak flow, (e) annular flow]:

See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d
(Geometry figure for straight pipe).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                              Nam Def Description
                                                    e   aul 
                                                        t   
  ------------------------------------------------- --- --- ---------------
  Constant inputs                                           

  dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_con                         IN_     Input record
                                                    con     for function
                                                            dp_twoPhaseOver
                                                            all_DP

  Variable inputs                                           

  dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_var                         IN_     Input record
                                                    var     for function
                                                            dp_twoPhaseOver
                                                            all_DP

  Input                                                     

  MassFlowRate                                      m_f     Mass flow rate
                                                    low     [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Name   Description
  -------------------------------------------- ------ ----------------------
  Pressure                                     DP     Two phase pressure
                                                      loss [Pa]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP 
      "Pressure loss of straight pipe for two phase flow | calculate (frictional, momentum, geodetic) pressure loss"
      //SOURCE_1: Friedel,L.:IMPROVED FRICTION PRESSURE DROP CORRELATIONS FOR HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL TWO PHASE PIPE FLOW, 3R International, Vol. 18, Issue 7, pp. 485-491, 1979
      //SOURCE_2: Chisholm,D.:PRESSURE GRADIENTS DUE TO FRICTION DURING THE FLOW OF EVAPORATING TWO-PHASE MIXTURES IN SMOOTH TUBES AND CHANNELS, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, Vol. 16, pp. 347-358, Pergamon Press 1973
      //SOURCE_3: VDI-Waermeatlas, 10th edition, Springer-Verlag, 2006.
      //SOURCE 4: J.M. Jensen and H. Tummescheit. Moving boundary models for dynamic simulations of two-phase flows. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Modelica Conference, pp. 235-244, Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany, 2002. The Modelica Association.
      //SOURCE_5: Thome, J.R., Engineering Data Book 3, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL), 2009.

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.StraightPipe_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP";
      input SI.MassFlowRate m_flow "Mass flow rate";

      //output variables
      output SI.Pressure DP "Two phase pressure loss";

    protected 
      type TYP =
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Types.TwoPhaseFrictionalPressureLoss;

      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      SI.Area A_cross=max(MIN, IN_con.A_cross) "Cross sectional area";
      SI.Diameter d_hyd=max(MIN, 4*A_cross/max(MIN, IN_con.perimeter)) 
        "Hydraulic diameter";

      Real mdot_A=abs(m_flow)/A_cross "Mass flux";
      Real xflowEnd=min(1, max(0, abs(IN_var.x_flow_end))) 
        "Mass flow rate quality at end of length";
      Real xflowSta=min(1, max(0, abs(IN_var.x_flow_sta))) 
        "Mass flow rate quality at start of length";
      Real x_flow=(xflowEnd + xflowSta)/2 "Mean mass flow rate quality over length";

      //SOURCE_5: p.17-1 to 17-5, sec. 17.1 to 17.2: Considering cross sectional void fraction [epsilon=A_g/(A_g+A_l)]
      Real epsilon=
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.PressureLoss.TwoPhase.VoidFraction(
          IN_con.voidFractionApproach,
          true,
          IN_var.rho_g,
          IN_var.rho_l,
          x_flow) "Void fraction";

      //SOURCE_1: Considering frictional pressure loss w.r.t. to correlation of Friedel
      //SOURCE_2: Considering frictional pressrue loss w.r.t. to correlation of Chisholm
      SI.Pressure DP_fric=if IN_con.frictionalPressureLoss == TYP.Friedel then 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.PressureLoss.TwoPhase.dp_twoPhaseFriedel_DP(
          IN_con,
          IN_var,
          m_flow) else if IN_con.frictionalPressureLoss == TYP.Chisholm then 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.PressureLoss.TwoPhase.dp_twoPhaseChisholm_DP(
          IN_con,
          IN_var,
          m_flow) else 0 "Frictional pressure loss";

      //SOURCE_3: p.Lba 4, eq. 22: Considering momentum pressure loss assuming heterogeneous approach for two phase flow
      //Evaporation >> positive momentum pressure loss (assumed vice versa at condenstation)
      SI.Pressure DP_mom=if IN_con.momentumPressureLoss then 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.PressureLoss.TwoPhase.dp_twoPhaseMomentum_DP(
          IN_con.voidFractionApproach,
          IN_con.massFlowRateCorrection,
          IN_con.A_cross,
          IN_con.perimeter,
          IN_var.rho_g,
          IN_var.rho_l,
          IN_var.x_flow_end,
          IN_var.x_flow_sta,
          abs(m_flow)) else 0 "Momentum pressure loss";

      //SOURCE_3: p.Lbb 1, eq. 4: Considering geodetic pressure loss assuming constant void fraction for flow length
      SI.Pressure DP_geo=if IN_con.geodeticPressureLoss then 
          Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.PressureLoss.TwoPhase.dp_twoPhaseGeodetic_DP(
          IN_con.voidFractionApproach,
          true,
          IN_con.length,
          IN_con.phi,
          IN_var.rho_g,
          IN_var.rho_l,
          IN_var.x_flow) else 0 "Geodetic pressure loss";

      //Documentation
    algorithm 
      DP := DP_fric + DP_mom + DP_geo;

    end dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP;

* * * * *

[image36] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_con
========================================================================================

Input record for function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.TwoPhaseFlow_con
(Base record for two phase Flow).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name   Default   Description
  ----------------------------------------- ------ --------- -------------
  Choices                                                    

  TwoPhaseFrictionalPressureLoss            fricti Dissipati Choice of
                                            onalPr on.Utilit frictional
                                            essure ies.Types pressure loss
                                            Loss   ....      approach

  Roughness                                 voidFr Dissipati Choice of
                                            action on.Utilit void fraction
                                            Approa ies.Types approach
                                            ch     ....      

  Boolean                                   moment false     Considering
                                            umPres           momentum
                                            sureLo           pressure loss
                                            ss               

  Boolean                                   massFl false     Consider
                                            owRate           heterogeneous
                                            Correc           mass flow
                                            tion             rate
                                                             correction

  Boolean                                   geodet false     Considering
                                            icPres           geodetic
                                            sureLo           pressure loss
                                            ss               

  Geometry                                                   

  Area                                      A_cros PI*0.1^2/ Cross
                                            s      4         sectional
                                                             area [m2]

  Length                                    perime PI*0.1    Wettet
                                            ter              perimeter [m]

  Length                                    length 1         Length in
                                                             fluid flow
                                                             direction [m]

  Angle                                     phi    0         Tilt angle to
                                                             horizontal
                                                             [rad]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_con 
      "Input record for function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP"

      //choices
      Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Types.TwoPhaseFrictionalPressureLoss
        frictionalPressureLoss=Dissipation.Utilities.Types.TwoPhaseFrictionalPressureLoss.Friedel 
        "Choice of frictional pressure loss approach";
      Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Types.Roughness
        voidFractionApproach =                                                  Dissipation.Utilities.Types.VoidFractionApproach.Homogeneous 
        "Choice of void fraction approach";

      Boolean momentumPressureLoss=false "Considering momentum pressure loss";
      Boolean massFlowRateCorrection=false 
        "Consider heterogeneous mass flow rate correction";
      Boolean geodeticPressureLoss=false "Considering geodetic pressure loss";

      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.TwoPhaseFlow_con;
      SI.Angle phi=0 "Tilt angle to horizontal";


    end dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_con;

* * * * *

[image37] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.StraightPipe.dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_var
========================================================================================

Input record for function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss function
dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.TwoPhaseFlow_var
(Base record for two phase flow).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                             Name   Default        Description
  -------------------------------- ------ -------------- ------------------
  Fluid properties                                       

  Real                             x_flow 0              Mass flow rate
                                   _end                  quality at end of
                                                         length

  Real                             x_flow 0              Mass flow rate
                                   _sta                  quality at start
                                                         of length

  Density                          rho_g                 Density of gas
                                                         [kg/m3]

  Density                          rho_l                 Density of liquid
                                                         [kg/m3]

  DynamicViscosity                 eta_g                 Dynamic viscosity
                                                         of gas [Pa.s]

  DynamicViscosity                 eta_l                 Dynamic viscosity
                                                         of liquid [Pa.s]

  SurfaceTension                   sigma                 Surface tension
                                                         [N/m]

  Input                                                  

  Real                             x_flow (x_flow_end +  Mean mass flow
                                          x_flow_sta)/2  rate quality over
                                                         length
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_var 
      "Input record for function dp_twoPhaseOverall_DP"

      Real x_flow_end=0 "Mass flow rate quality at end of length";
      Real x_flow_sta=0 "Mass flow rate quality at start of length";
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.TwoPhaseFlow_var
        (                                                                           final 
          x_flow=(x_flow_end + x_flow_sta)/2);


    end dp_twoPhaseOverall_IN_var;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:22 2010.
