Modelica.Thermal.HeatTransfer: Modelica.Thermal.HeatTransfer



Library of 1-dimensional heat transfer with lumped elements

Information
===========

::

This package contains components to model 1-dimensional heat transfer
with lumped elements. This allows especially to model heat transfer in
machines provided the parameters of the lumped elements, such as the
heat capacity of a part, can be determined by measurements (due to the
complex geometries and many materials used in machines, calculating the
lumped element parameters from some basic analytic formulas is usually
not possible).

Example models how to use this library are given in subpackage Examples.
For a first simple example, see Examples.TwoMasses where two masses with
different initial temperatures are getting in contact to each other and
arriving after some time at a common temperature.
Examples.ControlledTemperature shows how to hold a temperature within
desired limits by switching on and off an electric resistor. A more
realistic example is provided in Examples.Motor where the heating of an
electrical motor is modelled, see the following screen shot of this
example:

The filled and non-filled red squares at the left and right side of a
component represent thermal ports (connector HeatPort). Drawing a line
between such squares means that they are thermally connected. The
variables of a HeatPort connector are the temperature T at the port and
the heat flow rate Q_flow flowing into the component (if Q_flow is
positive, the heat flows into the element, otherwise it flows out of the
element):

    Modelica.SIunits.Temperature  T  "absolute temperature at port in Kelvin";
    Modelica.SIunits.HeatFlowRate Q_flow  "flow rate at the port in Watt";

Note, that all temperatures of this package, including initial
conditions, are given in Kelvin. For convenience, in subpackages
HeatTransfer.Celsius, HeatTransfer.Fahrenheit and HeatTransfer.Rankine
components are provided such that source and sensor information is
available in degree Celsius, degree Fahrenheit, or degree Rankine,
respectively. Additionally, in package SIunits.Conversions conversion
functions between the units Kelvin and Celsius, Fahrenheit, Rankine are
provided. These functions may be used in the following way:

    import SI=Modelica.SIunits;
    import Modelica.SIunits.Conversions.*;
       ...
    parameter SI.Temperature T = from_degC(25);  // convert 25 degree Celsius to Kelvin

There are several other components available, such as AxialConduction
(discretized PDE in axial direction), which have been temporarily
removed from this library. The reason is that these components reference
material properties, such as thermal conductivity, and currently the
Modelica design group is discussing a general scheme to describe
material properties.

For technical details in the design of this library, see the following
reference: Michael Tiller (2001): Introduction to Physical Modeling with
Modelica. Kluwer Academic Publishers Boston.

Acknowledgements:
    Several helpful remarks from the following persons are acknowledged:

John Batteh, Ford Motors, Dearborn, U.S.A; Anton Haumer, Technical
Consulting & Electrical Engineering, Austria; Ludwig Marvan, VA TECH
ELIN EBG Elektronik GmbH, Wien, Austria; Hans Olsson, Dassault Systèmes
AB, Sweden; Hubertus Tummescheit, Lund Institute of Technology, Lund,
Sweden.

Main Authors:
    Anton Haumer
        Technical Consulting & Electrical Engineering A-3423
        St.Andrae-Woerdern, Austria email: a.haumer@haumer.at

Copyright © 2001-2010, Modelica Association, Michael Tiller and DLR.

This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at your
own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the
Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the disclaimer of
warranty) see Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2 or visit
http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
===============

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                          Description
  --------------------------------------------- --------------------------
  [image8] Examples                             Example models to
                                                demonstrate the usage of
                                                package
                                                Modelica.Thermal.HeatTrans
                                                fer

  [image9] Components                           Lumped thermal components

  [image10] Sensors                             Thermal sensors

  [image11] Sources                             Thermal sources

  [image12] Celsius                             Components with Celsius
                                                input and/or output

  [image13] Fahrenheit                          Components with Fahrenheit
                                                input and/or output

  [image14] Rankine                             Components with Rankine
                                                input and/or output

  [image15] Interfaces                          Connectors and partial
                                                models
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:44 2010.
