Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice



Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice
===============================================

Package for pressure loss calculation of orifices

Information
-----------

::

Orifice

Sudden change

Calculation of the local pressure loss at a sudden change of the cross
sectional areas (sudden expansion or sudden contraction) with sharp
corners at turbulent flow regime for incompressible and single-phase
fluid flow through arbitrary shaped cross sectional area (square,
circular, etc.) considering a smooth surface. See more information.

Thick edged orifice

Calculation of pressure loss in thick edged orifices with sharp corners
at overall flow regime for incompressible and single-phase fluid flow
through an arbitrary shaped cross sectional area (square, circular,
etc.) considering constant influence of surface roughness. See more
information.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.VariantsPackage (Icon for package containing
variants).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                    Description
  --------------------------------------- --------------------------------
  [image8] dp_suddenChange_DP             Pressure loss of orifice with
                                          sudden change in cross sectional
                                          area | calculate pressure loss |
                                          turbulent flow regime | smooth
                                          surface | arbitrary cross
                                          sectional area | without buffles
                                          | sharp edge

  [image9] dp_suddenChange_MFLOW          Pressure loss of orifice with
                                          sudden change in cross sectional
                                          area | calculate mass flow rate
                                          | turbulent flow regime | smooth
                                          surface | arbitrary cross
                                          sectional area | without buffles
                                          | sharp edge

  [image10] dp_suddenChange_IN_con        Input record for function
                                          dp_suddenChange_DP and
                                          dp_suddenChange_MFLOW

  [image11] dp_suddenChange_IN_var        Input record for function
                                          dp_suddenChange_DP and
                                          dp_suddenChange_MFLOW

  [image12] dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP       Pressure loss of thick and sharp
                                          edged orifice | calculate
                                          pressure loss | overall flow
                                          regime | constant influence of
                                          friction | arbitrary cross
                                          sectional area

  [image13] dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW    Pressure loss of thick and sharp
                                          edged orifice | calculate mass
                                          flow rate | overall flow regime
                                          | constant influence of friction
                                          | arbitrary cross sectional area

  [image14] dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con   Input record for function
                                          dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and
                                          dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW

  [image15] dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var   Input record for function
                                          dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and
                                          dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_DP
==================================================================

Pressure loss of orifice with sudden change in cross sectional area |
calculate pressure loss | turbulent flow regime | smooth surface |
arbitrary cross sectional area | without buffles | sharp edge

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of the local pressure loss at a sudden change of the cross
sectional areas (sudden expansion or sudden contraction) with sharp
corners at turbulent flow regime for incompressible and single-phase
fluid flow through arbitrary shaped cross sectional area (square,
circular, etc.) considering a smooth surface. The flow direction
determines the type of the transition. In case of the design flow a
sudden expansion will be considered. At flow reversal a sudden
contraction will be considered.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the incompressible
case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) in
the used model and the corresponding pressure loss (DP) has to be
calculated. On the other hand the function dp_suddenChange_MFLOW is
numerically best used for the compressible case if the pressure loss
(dp) is known (out of pressures as state variable) and the mass flow
rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeSuddenChangeSection_d
(Geometry figure for orifice with sudden change of cross sectional
area).

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Def Description
                                                   e   aul 
                                                       t   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --- ---------------
  Constant inputs                                          

  dp_suddenChange_IN_con                           IN_     Input record
                                                   con     for function
                                                           dp_suddenChange
                                                           _DP

  Variable inputs                                          

  dp_suddenChange_IN_var                           IN_     Input record
                                                   var     for function
                                                           dp_suddenChange
                                                           _DP

  Input                                                    

  MassFlowRate                                     m_f     Mass flow rate
                                                   low     [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name  Description
  -------------------------------------- ----- ----------------------------
  Pressure                               DP    Output for function
                                               dp_suddenChange_DP [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_suddenChange_DP 
      "Pressure loss of orifice with sudden change in cross sectional area | calculate pressure loss | turbulent flow regime | smooth surface | arbitrary cross sectional area | without buffles | sharp edge"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.
      //Notation of equations according to SOURCES

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeSuddenChangeSection_d;

      import SMOOTH = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.Stepsmoother;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_suddenChange_DP";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_suddenChange_DP";
      input SI.MassFlowRate m_flow "Mass flow rate";

      //output variables
      output SI.Pressure DP "Output for function dp_suddenChange_DP";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_min=1 "Minimum Reynolds number for linear smoothing";
      //restriction of local resistance coefficient zeta_LOC >> numerical improvement
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC_min=1e-3 
        "Minimal local resistance coefficient";

      SI.Area A_1=max(MIN, min(IN_con.A_1, IN_con.A_2)) 
        "Small cross sectional area of orifice";
      SI.Area A_2=max(MIN, max(IN_con.A_1, IN_con.A_2)) 
        "Large cross sectional area of orifice";
      SI.Length C_1=max(MIN, min(IN_con.C_1, IN_con.C_2)) 
        "Perimeter of small cross sectional area of orifice";
      SI.Length C_2=max(MIN, max(IN_con.C_1, IN_con.C_2)) 
        "perimeter of large cross sectional area of orifice";
      SI.Diameter d_hyd=4*A_1/C_1 
        "Hydraulic diameter of small cross sectional area of orifice";

      //sudden expansion  :  SOURCE_1, section 4, diagram 4-1, page 208
      //assumption of Re >= 3.3e3 for sudden expansion
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC_exp=max(zeta_LOC_min, (1 - A_1/A_2)^2);

      //sudden contraction:  SOURCE_1, section 4, diagram 4-9, page 216 / 217
      //assumption of Re >= 1.0e4 for sudden contraction
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC_con=max(zeta_LOC_min, 0.5*(1 - A_1/
          A_2)^0.75);

      SI.Velocity velocity_1=m_flow/(IN_var.rho*A_1) 
        "Mean velocity in smaller cross sectional area";

      //determine Reynolds number for small cross sectional area of orifice
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re=IN_var.rho*d_hyd*velocity_1/IN_var.eta;

      //actual local resistance coefficient
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC=zeta_LOC_exp*SMOOTH(
          Re_min,
          0,
          Re) + zeta_LOC_con*SMOOTH(
          -Re_min,
          0,
          Re) + zeta_LOC_min*SMOOTH(
          0,
          Re_min,
          abs(Re));

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      DP := zeta_LOC*IN_var.rho/2*(IN_var.eta/IN_var.rho/d_hyd)^2*
        Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.SmoothPower(
              Re,
              Re_min,
              2);

    end dp_suddenChange_DP;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_MFLOW
=====================================================================

Pressure loss of orifice with sudden change in cross sectional area |
calculate mass flow rate | turbulent flow regime | smooth surface |
arbitrary cross sectional area | without buffles | sharp edge

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of the local pressure loss at a sudden change of the cross
sectional areas (sudden expansion or sudden contraction) with sharp
corners at turbulent flow regime for incompressible and single-phase
fluid flow through arbitrary shaped cross sectional area (square,
circular, etc.) considering a smooth surface. The flow direction
determines the type of the transition. In case of the design flow a
sudden expansion will be considered. At flow reversal a sudden
contraction will be considered.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the compressible
case if the pressure loss (dp) is known (out of pressures as state
variable) and the mass flow rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. On the
other hand the function dp_suddenChange_DP is numerically best used for
the incompressible case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as
state variable) in the used model and the corresponding pressure loss
(DP) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeSuddenChangeSection_d
(Geometry figure for orifice with sudden change of cross sectional
area).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Def Description
                                                   e   aul 
                                                       t   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --- ----------------
  Constant inputs                                          

  dp_suddenChange_IN_con                           IN_     Input record for
                                                   con     function
                                                           dp_suddenChange_
                                                           MFLOW

  Variable inputs                                          

  dp_suddenChange_IN_var                           IN_     Input record for
                                                   var     function
                                                           dp_suddenChange_
                                                           MFLOW

  Input                                                    

  Pressure                                         dp      Pressure loss
                                                           [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name   Description
  ------------------------------------- ------ ----------------------------
  MassFlowRate                          M_FLOW Output for function
                                               dp_suddenChange_MFLOW [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_suddenChange_MFLOW 
      "Pressure loss of orifice with sudden change in cross sectional area | calculate mass flow rate | turbulent flow regime | smooth surface | arbitrary cross sectional area | without buffles | sharp edge"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.
      //Notation of equations according to SOURCES

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice;
      import SMOOTH = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.Stepsmoother;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeSuddenChangeSection_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_suddenChange_MFLOW";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_suddenChange_MFLOW";
      input SI.Pressure dp "Pressure loss";

      //output variables
      output SI.MassFlowRate M_FLOW "Output for function dp_suddenChange_MFLOW";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;
      SI.Pressure dp_min=1 "Pressure loss for linear smoothing";
      //restriction of local resistance coefficient zeta_LOC >> numerical improvement
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC_min=1e-3 
        "Minimal local resistance coefficient";

      SI.Area A_1=max(MIN, min(IN_con.A_1, IN_con.A_2)) 
        "Small cross sectional area of orifice";
      SI.Area A_2=max(MIN, max(IN_con.A_1, IN_con.A_2)) 
        "Large cross sectional area of orifice";

      //sudden expansion  :  SOURCE_1, section 4, diagram 4-1, page 208
      //assumption of Re >= 3.3e3 for sudden expansion
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC_exp=max(zeta_LOC_min, (1 - A_1/A_2)^2);

      //sudden contraction:  SOURCE_1, section 4, diagram 4-9, page 216 / 217
      //assumption of Re >= 1.0e4 for sudden contraction
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC_con=max(zeta_LOC_min, 0.5*(1 - A_1/
          A_2)^0.75);

      //actual local resistance coefficient
      TYP.LocalResistanceCoefficient zeta_LOC=max(zeta_LOC_min, zeta_LOC_exp*SMOOTH(
          dp_min,
          0,
          dp) + zeta_LOC_con*SMOOTH(
          -dp_min,
          0,
          dp)) + zeta_LOC_min*SMOOTH(
          0,
          dp_min,
          abs(dp));

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      M_FLOW := IN_var.rho*A_1*
        Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.SmoothPower(
              dp,
              dp_min,
              0.5)*(max(MIN, 2/(IN_var.rho*zeta_LOC)))^0.5;
    end dp_suddenChange_MFLOW;

* * * * *

[image16] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_IN_con
================================================================================

Input record for function dp_suddenChange_DP and dp_suddenChange_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss functions
dp_suddenChange_DP and dp_suddenChange_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.SuddenChange
(Input for sudden change of diameter).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name Default   Description
  --------------------------------- ---- --------- -------------------------
  Orifice                                          

  Area                              A_1  PI*0.01^2 Small cross sectional
                                         /4        area of orifice [m2]

  Area                              A_2  A_1       Large cross sectional
                                                   area of orifice [m2]

  Length                            C_1  PI*0.01   Small perimeter of
                                                   orifice [m]

  Length                            C_2  C_1       Large perimeter of
                                                   orifice [m]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_suddenChange_IN_con 
      "Input record for function dp_suddenChange_DP and dp_suddenChange_MFLOW"

      //orifice variables
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.SuddenChange;

    end dp_suddenChange_IN_con;

* * * * *

[image17] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_suddenChange_IN_var
================================================================================

Input record for function dp_suddenChange_DP and dp_suddenChange_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss functions
dp_suddenChange_DP and dp_suddenChange_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.PressureLoss (Base
record for fluid properties for pressure loss).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Defaul Description
                                                 t      
  ----------------------------------------- ---- ------ -------------------
  Fluid properties                                      

  DynamicViscosity                          eta         Dynamic viscosity
                                                        of fluid [Pa.s]

  Density                                   rho         Density of fluid
                                                        [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_suddenChange_IN_var 
      "Input record for function dp_suddenChange_DP and dp_suddenChange_MFLOW"

      //fluid property variables
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.PressureLoss;

    end dp_suddenChange_IN_var;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP
=======================================================================

Pressure loss of thick and sharp edged orifice | calculate pressure loss
| overall flow regime | constant influence of friction | arbitrary cross
sectional area

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in thick edged orifices with sharp corners
at overall flow regime for incompressible and single-phase fluid flow
through an arbitrary shaped cross sectional area (square, circular,
etc.) considering constant influence of surface roughness.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the incompressible
case, where the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) in
the used model and the corresponding pressure loss (DP) has to be
calculated. On the other hand the function dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW is
numerically best used for the compressible case if the pressure loss
(dp) is known (out of pressures as state variable) and the mass flow
rate (M_FLOW) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeThickEdged_d
(Geometry figure for orifice with thick edged vena contraction).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Def Description
                                                   e   aul 
                                                       t   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --- ----------------
  Constant inputs                                          

  dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con                      IN_     Input record for
                                                   con     function
                                                           dp_thickEdgedOve
                                                           rall_DP

  Variable inputs                                          

  dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var                      IN_     Input record for
                                                   var     function
                                                           dp_thickEdgedOve
                                                           rall_DP

  Input                                                    

  MassFlowRate                                     m_f     Mass flow rate
                                                   low     [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                 Name Description
  ------------------------------------ ---- ------------------------------
  Pressure                             DP   Output for function
                                            dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP [Pa]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP 
      "Pressure loss of thick and sharp edged orifice | calculate pressure loss | overall flow regime | constant influence of friction  | arbitrary cross sectional area"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.
      //Notation of equations according to SOURCES

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice;
      import SMOOTH = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.Stepsmoother;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeThickEdged_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP";

      input SI.MassFlowRate m_flow "Mass flow rate";

      //output variables
      output SI.Pressure DP "Output for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;

      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI=0.02 
        "Assumption for darcy friction factor in vena contraction according to SOURCE_1";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_min=1;
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lim=1e3 "Limitation for laminar regime if dp is target";

      SI.Area A_0=IN_con.A_0 "Cross sectional area of vena contraction";
      SI.Area A_1=IN_con.A_1 "Cross sectional area of large cross sectional area";
      SI.Diameter d_hyd_0=max(MIN, 4*A_0/IN_con.C_0) 
        "Hydraulic diameter of vena contraction";
      SI.Diameter d_hyd_1=max(MIN, 4*A_1/IN_con.C_1) 
        "Hydraulic diameter of large cross sectional area";
      SI.Length l=IN_con.L "Length of vena contraction";
      SI.Length l_bar=IN_con.L/d_hyd_0;

      //SOURCE_1, section 4, diagram 4-15, page 222:
      Real phi=0.25 + 0.535*min(l_bar, 2.4)^8/(0.05 + min(l_bar, 2.4)^8);
      Real tau=(max(2.4 - l_bar, 0))*10^(-phi);

      TYP.PressureLossCoefficient zeta_TOT_1=max(MIN, (0.5*(1 - A_0/A_1)^0.75 + tau
          *(1 - A_0/A_1)^1.375 + (1 - A_0/A_1)^2 + lambda_FRI*l/d_hyd_0)*(A_1/A_0)^
          2) 
        "Pressure loss coefficient w.r.t. to flow velocity in large cross sectional area";
      SI.Velocity v_0=m_flow/(IN_var.rho*A_0) "Mean velocity in vena contraction";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re=IN_var.rho*v_0*d_hyd_0/max(MIN, IN_var.eta) 
        "Reynolds number in vena contraction";

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      DP := zeta_TOT_1*IN_var.rho/2*(IN_var.eta/IN_var.rho/d_hyd_1)^2*
        Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.SmoothPower(
              Re,
              Re_min,
              2)*(d_hyd_1/d_hyd_0*A_0/A_1)^2;
    end dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP;

* * * * *

Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW
==========================================================================

Pressure loss of thick and sharp edged orifice | calculate mass flow
rate | overall flow regime | constant influence of friction | arbitrary
cross sectional area

Information
-----------

::

Calculation of pressure loss in thick edged orifices with sharp corners
at overall flow regime for incompressible and single-phase fluid flow
through an arbitrary shaped cross sectional area (square, circular,
etc.) considering constant influence of surface roughness.

Generally this function is numerically best used for the compressible
case, where the pressure loss (dp) is known (out of pressures as state
variable) in the used model and the corresponding mass flow rate
(M_FLOW) has to be calculated. On the other hand the function
dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP is numerically best used for the incompressible
case if the mass flow rate (m_flow) is known (as state variable) and the
pressure loss (DP) has to be calculated. See more information.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeThickEdged_d
(Geometry figure for orifice with thick edged vena contraction).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Def Description
                                                   e   aul 
                                                       t   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --- ----------------
  Constant inputs                                          

  dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con                      IN_     Input record for
                                                   con     function
                                                           dp_thickEdgedOve
                                                           rall_MFLOW

  Variable inputs                                          

  dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var                      IN_     Input record for
                                                   var     function
                                                           dp_thickEdgedOve
                                                           rall_MFLOW

  Input                                                    

  Pressure                                         dp      Pressure loss
                                                           [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                 Name  Description
  ------------------------------------ ----- -----------------------------
  MassFlowRate                         M_FLO Output for function
                                       W     dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW
                                             [kg/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW 
      "Pressure loss of thick and sharp edged orifice | calculate mass flow rate | overall flow regime | constant influence of friction  | arbitrary cross sectional area"
      //SOURCE_1: Idelchik, I.E.: HANDBOOK OF HYDRAULIC RESISTANCE, 3rd edition, 2006.
      //Notation of equations according to SOURCES

      import FD = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice;
      import SMOOTH = Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.Stepsmoother;

      //icon
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Icons.PressureLoss.OrificeThickEdged_d;

      //input records
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con
        IN_con "Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW";
      input Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var
        IN_var "Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW";

      input SI.Pressure dp "Pressure loss";

      //output variables
      output SI.MassFlowRate M_FLOW 
        "Output for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW";

    protected 
      Real MIN=Modelica.Constants.eps;
      TYP.DarcyFrictionFactor lambda_FRI=0.02 
        "Assumption for darcy friction factor in vena contraction according to SOURCE_1";
      SI.ReynoldsNumber Re_lim=1e3 "Limitation for laminar regime if dp is target";

      SI.Area A_0=IN_con.A_0 "Cross sectional area of vena contraction";
      SI.Area A_1=IN_con.A_1 "Large cross sectional area";
      SI.Diameter d_hyd_0=max(MIN, 4*A_0/IN_con.C_0) 
        "Hydraulic diameter of vena contraction";
      SI.Diameter d_hyd_1=max(MIN, 4*A_1/IN_con.C_1) 
        "Hydraulic diameter of large cross sectional area";
      SI.Length l=IN_con.L "Length of vena contraction";
      SI.Length l_bar=IN_con.L/d_hyd_0;

      //SOURCE_1, section 4, diagram 4-15, page 222:
      Real phi=0.25 + 0.535*min(l_bar, 2.4)^8/(0.05 + min(l_bar, 2.4)^8);
      Real tau=(max(2.4 - l_bar, 0))*10^(-phi);

      TYP.PressureLossCoefficient zeta_TOT_1=max(MIN, (0.5*(1 - A_0/A_1)^0.75 + tau
          *(1 - A_0/A_1)^1.375 + (1 - A_0/A_1)^2 + lambda_FRI*l/d_hyd_0)*(A_1/A_0)^
          2) 
        "Pressure loss coefficient w.r.t. to flow velocity in large cross sectional area";

      //Documentation

    algorithm 
      M_FLOW := IN_var.rho*A_1*
        Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Functions.General.SmoothPower(
              dp,
              IN_con.dp_smooth,
              0.5)/(0.5*IN_var.rho*zeta_TOT_1)^0.5;
    end dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW;

* * * * *

[image18] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con
=====================================================================================

Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and
dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss functions
dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.Orifice (Input
for orifice).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                           Name   Default Description
  ------------------------------ ------ ------- --------------------------
  Orifice                                       

  Area                           A_0    0.1*A_1 Cross sectional area of
                                                vena contraction [m2]

  Length                         C_0    0.1*C_1 Perimeter of vena
                                                contraction [m]

  Area                           A_1    PI*0.01 Large cross sectional area
                                        ^2/4    of orifice [m2]

  Length                         C_1    PI*0.01 Large perimeter of orifice
                                                [m]

  Length                         L      1e-3    Length of vena contraction
                                                [m]

  Linearisation                                 

  Pressure                       dp_smo 1       Start linearisation for
                                 oth            decreasing pressure loss
                                                [Pa]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con 
      "Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW"

      //orifice variables
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.PressureLoss.Orifice;

      //linearisation
      SI.Pressure dp_smooth(min=Modelica.Constants.eps) = 1 
        "Start linearisation for decreasing pressure loss";

    end dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_con;

* * * * *

[image19] Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.PressureLoss.Orifice.dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var
=====================================================================================

Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and
dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW

Information
-----------

::

This record is used as input record for the pressure loss functions
dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.PressureLoss (Base
record for fluid properties for pressure loss).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Defaul Description
                                                 t      
  ----------------------------------------- ---- ------ -------------------
  Fluid properties                                      

  DynamicViscosity                          eta         Dynamic viscosity
                                                        of fluid [Pa.s]

  Density                                   rho         Density of fluid
                                                        [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    record dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var 
      "Input record for function dp_thickEdgedOverall_DP and dp_thickEdgedOverall_MFLOW"

      //fluid property variables
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Dissipation.Utilities.Records.General.PressureLoss;

    end dp_thickEdgedOverall_IN_var;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:22 2010.
