Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide



[Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide
===============================================================================

::

This library contains components for modelling of electromagnetic
devices with lumped magnetic networks. Those models are suited for both
rough design of the magnetic subsystem of a device as well as for
efficient dynamic simulation at system level together with neighbouring
subsystems. At present, components and examples for modelling of
translatory electromagnetic and electrodynamic actuators are provided.
If needed, these components can be adapted to network modellling of
rotational electrical machines.

This user's guide gives a short introduction to the underlying concept
of magnetic flux tubes, summarizes the calculation of magnetic
reluctance forces from lumped magnetic network models and lists
reference literature.

Examples illustrates the usage of magnetic network models with simple
models from different fields of application.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Information (Icon for general information
packages).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                                              Descri
                                                                    ption
  ----------------------------------------------------------------- ------
  [image5] FluxTubeConcept                                          Flux
                                                                    tube
                                                                    concep
                                                                    t

  [image6] ReluctanceForceCalculation                               Reluct
                                                                    ance
                                                                    forces

  [image7] Literature                                               Litera
                                                                    ture

  [image8] Contact                                                  Contac
                                                                    t
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image9] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide.FluxTubeConcept
===============================================================

::

Overview of the Concept of Magnetic Flux Tubes

Following below, the concept of magnetic flux tubes is outlined in
short. For a detailed description of flux tube elements, please have a
look at the listed literature. Magnetic flux tubes enable for modeling
of magnetic fields with lumped networks. The figure below and the
following equations illustrate the transition from the original magnetic
field quantities described by Maxwell's equations to network elements
with a flow variable and an across variable:

For a region with an approximately homogeneous distribution of the
magnetic field strength H and the magnetic flux density B through cross
sectional area A at each length coordinate s (A perpendicular to the
direction of the magnetic field lines), a magnetic reluctance Rm can be
defined:

With the definition of the magnetic potential difference Vm as an across
variable and the magnetic flux Φ as flow variable, a reluctance element
Rm can be defined similar to resistive network elements in other
physical domains. Using Maxwell's constitutive equation

the general formula for the calculation of a magnetic reluctance Rm from
its geometric and material properties is:

For a prismatic or cylindrical volume of length l and cross sectional
area A with the magnetic flux entering and leaving the region through
its end planes, the above equation simplifies to:

Similar equations can be derived for other geometries. In cases where a
direct integration is not possible, the reluctance can be calclulated on
base of average length, average cross sectional area and volume V
respectively:

Network elements for sources of a magnetic potential difference or
magnetomotive force, i.e., coils or permanent magnets can be formulated
as well. The resulting magnetic network models of actuators reflect the
main dimensions of these devices as well as the normally nonlinear
characteristics of their magnetically active materials.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Information (Icon for general information
packages).

* * * * *

[image10] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide.ReluctanceForceCalculation
===========================================================================

::

Calculation of reluctance forces from lumped magnetic network models

Generally, the thrust F developed by a translatory
electro-magneto-mechanical actuator (similar for the rotational case
with torque and angular position) is equal to the change of magnetic
co-energy Wm\* with armature position x according to [Equation for force
calculation from change of magnetic co-energy with armature position] (Ψ
flux linkage, i actuator current). In lumped magnetic network models,
the above equation simplifies to [Equation for force calculation in
lumped magnetic network models]

where nlinear is the number of flux tube elements with constant relative
permeability that change its permeance Gm
i with armature position (index i), Vm i the magnetic voltage across
each respective flux tube and dGm i/dx the derivative of the respective
permeances with respect to armature position. Transition from the
general formula based on magnetic co-energy to the latter one is
outlined in [Ka08] for the reciprocal of the permeance, i.e., for the
magnetic reluctance Rm. Note that

with Φi being the magnetic flux through each respective flux tube
element.

Flux tube elements with non-linear material characteristics μr(B) in
magnetic network models do not restrict the usability of the above
equation. However, it is required that these nonlinear flux tube
elements do not change its shape with armature motion (e.g., portion of
a solenoid plunger where the magnetic flux passes through in axial
direction). This limitation is not a strong one, since the permeance of
nonlinear, but highly permeable ferromagnetic flux tube elements and its
change with armature position compared to that of air gap flux tubes can
be neglected in most cases. Because of this constraint, the dimensions
of possibly nonlinear flux tube elements in sub-package
Shapes.FixedShape are fixed, whereas the dimension in direction of
motion of the linear flux tube elements in sub-package Shapes.Force can
vary during simulation. For the flux tubes defined in this package with
their rather simple shapes, the derivative dGm/dx is given analytically.
For more complex shapes and variations of dimensions with armature
motion, it must be provided analytically during model development,
preferably by extending the partial model Interfaces.PartialForce.

The sub-package Shapes.Leakage contains flux tube shapes typical for
leakage flux around prismatic or cylindrical poles. Since the permeance
of these flux tubes does not change with armature position, they do not
contribute to a reluctance actuator's thrust.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Information (Icon for general information
packages).

* * * * *

[image13] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide.Literature
===========================================================

::

Literature

-   Usage of the Modelica Magnetic library is described in:

    [Bö08] Bödrich, T.:
        Electromagnetic Actuator Modelling with the Extended Modelica
        Magnetic Library. Modelica 2008 Conference, Bielefeld, Germany,
        pp. 221-227, March 3-4, 2008. Download from:
        http://www.modelica.org/events/modelica2008/Proceedings/sessions/session2d2.pdf

-   The method of magnetic flux tubes as well as derivation of the
    permeance of many flux tube shapes is explained in detail in:

    [Ro41] Roters, H.:
        Electromagnetic Devices. New York: John Wiley & Sons 1941 (8th
        Printing 1961)

-   Structure, properties, applications and design of electromagnetic
    (reluctance type) actuators are thoroughly described in:

    [Ka08] Kallenbach, E.; Eick, R.; Quendt, P.; Ströhla, T.; Feindt,
    K.; Kallenbach, M.: Elektromagnete: Grundlagen, Berechnung, Entwurf
    und Anwendung. 3rd ed., Wiesbaden: Vieweg Teubner 2008 (in German)
    [Ro00] Roschke, T.: Entwurf geregelter elektromagnetischer Antriebe
    für Luftschütze. Fortschritt-Berichte VDI, Reihe 21, Nr. 293,
    Düsseldorf: VDI-Verlag 2000 (in German)

-   Application of the method of magnetic flux tubes to the design of
    rotational electrical machines is explained for example in:

    [HM94] Hendershot, J.R. Jr.; Miller, T.J.E.:
        Design of Brushless Permanent-Magnet Motors. Magna Physics
        Publishing and Oxford University Press 1994

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.References (Icon for external references).

* * * * *

[image14] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.UsersGuide.Contact
========================================================

::

Contact

Main Author:
    Thomas Bödrich
        Dresden University of Technology Institute of Electromechanical
        and Electronic Design 01062 Dresden, Germany Phone: +49 - 351 -
        463 36296 Fax: +49 - 351 - 463 37183 email:

    Thomas.Boedrich@mailbox.tu-dresden.de

Acknowledgements:

-   The magnetisation characteristics of the included soft magnetic
    materials were compiled and measured respectively by Thomas Roschke,
    now with Johnson Electric. Provision of this data is highly
    appreciated. He also formulated the approximation function used for
    description of the magnetisation characteristics of these materials.
-   André Klick of then Dresden University of Technology, Dresden,
    Germany gave valuable support on the implementation of this library.
    His contribution is highly appreciated, too.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Contact (Icon for contact information).

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:29:47 2010.
