Modelica.StateGraph



Modelica.StateGraph
===================

Library of hierarchical state machine components to model discrete event
and reactive systems

Information
-----------

::

Note, there is a much improved version of this library called
"Modelica_StateGraph2". If this library is not yet distributed with your
Modelica tool, you can download it from
http://www.modelica.org/libraries/Modelica_StateGraph2. In the Users
Guide a detailed comparison is given. It is highly recommended to use
Modelica_StateGraph2 instead of Modelica.StateGraph.

Library StateGraph is a free Modelica package providing components to
model discrete event and reactive systems in a convenient way. It is
based on the JGraphChart method and takes advantage of Modelica features
for the "action" language. JGraphChart is a further development of
Grafcet to include elements of StateCharts that are not present in
Grafcet/Sequential Function Charts. Therefore, the StateGraph library
has a similar modeling power as StateCharts but avoids some deficiences
of StateCharts.

For an introduction, have especially a look at:

-   StateGraph.UsersGuide discusses the most important aspects how to
    use this library.
-   StateGraph.Examples contains examples that demonstrate the usage of
    this library.

A typical model generated with this library is shown in the next figure
where on the left hand side a two-tank system with a tank controller and
on the right hand side the top-level part of the tank controller as a
StateGraph is shown:

[image0] [image1]

The unique feature of the StateGraph library with respect to
JGraphCharts, Grafcet, Sequential Function Charts, and StateCharts, is
Modelica's "single assignment rule" that requires that every variable is
defined by exactly one equation. This leads to a different "action"
definition as in these formalisms. The advantage is that the translator
can either determine a useful evaluation sequence by equation sorting or
reports an error if this is not possible, e.g., because a model would
lead to a non-determinism or to a dead-lock. As a side effect, this
leads also to simpler and more easier to understand models and global
variables are no longer needed (whereas in JGraphCharts, Grafcet,
Sequential Function Charts and StateCharts global variables are nearly
always needed).

Copyright Â© 1998-2010, Modelica Association and DLR

This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at your
own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the
Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the disclaimer of
warranty) see Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2 or visit
http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                   Description
  -------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  [image16] UsersGuide                   User's Guide of StateGraph
                                         Library

  [image17] Examples                     Examples to demonstrate the usage
                                         of the components of the
                                         StateGraph library

  [image18] Interfaces                   Connectors and partial models

  [image19] InitialStep                  Initial step (= step that is
                                         active when simulation starts)

  [image20] InitialStepWithSignal        Initial step (= step that is
                                         active when simulation starts).
                                         Connector 'active' is true when
                                         the step is active

  [image21] Step                         Ordinary step (= step that is not
                                         active when simulation starts)

  [image22] StepWithSignal               Ordinary step (= step that is not
                                         active when simulation starts).
                                         Connector 'active' is true when
                                         the step is active

  [image23] Transition                   Transition where the fire
                                         condition is set by a
                                         modification of variable
                                         condition

  [image24] TransitionWithSignal         Transition where the fire
                                         condition is set by a Boolean
                                         input signal

  [image25] Alternative                  Alternative splitting of
                                         execution path (use component
                                         between two steps)

  [image26] Parallel                     Parallel splitting of execution
                                         path (use component between two
                                         transitions)

  [image27] PartialCompositeStep         Superclass of a subgraph, i.e., a
                                         composite step that has
                                         internally a StateGraph

  [image28] StateGraphRoot               Root of a StateGraph (has to be
                                         present on the highest level of a
                                         StateGraph)

  [image29] Temporary                    Components that will be provided
                                         by other libraries in the future
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image30] Modelica.StateGraph.InitialStep
=========================================

Initial step (= step that is active when simulation starts)

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialStep (Partial step with one input and one
output transition port).

Parameters
----------

  Type         Name      Default      Description
  ------------ --------- ------------ ---------------------------------
  Integer      nIn       1            Number of input connections
  Integer      nOut      1            Number of output connections

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                          Name     Description
  --------------------------------------------- -------- -----------------
  Step_in                                       inPort[n Vector of step
                                                In]      input connectors

  Step_out                                      outPort[ Vector of step
                                                nOut]    output connectors
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block InitialStep 
      "Initial step (= step that is active when simulation starts)"

      output Boolean active 
        "= true if step is active, otherwise the step is not active";

      extends Interfaces.PartialStep;

    initial equation 
      active = true;
    equation 
      active = localActive;
    end InitialStep;

* * * * *

[image31] Modelica.StateGraph.InitialStepWithSignal
===================================================

Initial step (= step that is active when simulation starts). Connector
'active' is true when the step is active

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialStep (Partial step with one input and one
output transition port).

Parameters
----------

  Type         Name      Default      Description
  ------------ --------- ------------ ---------------------------------
  Integer      nIn       1            Number of input connections
  Integer      nOut      1            Number of output connections

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                           Name     Description
  ---------------------------------------------- -------- ----------------
  Step_in                                        inPort[n Vector of step
                                                 In]      input connectors

  Step_out                                       outPort[ Vector of step
                                                 nOut]    output
                                                          connectors

  output BooleanOutput                           active   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block InitialStepWithSignal 
      "Initial step (= step that is active when simulation starts). Connector 'active' is true when the step is active"

      extends Interfaces.PartialStep;

      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanOutput active;
    initial equation 
      active = true;
    equation 
      active = localActive;
    end InitialStepWithSignal;

* * * * *

[image32] Modelica.StateGraph.Step
==================================

Ordinary step (= step that is not active when simulation starts)

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialStep (Partial step with one input and one
output transition port).

Parameters
----------

  Type         Name      Default      Description
  ------------ --------- ------------ ---------------------------------
  Integer      nIn       1            Number of input connections
  Integer      nOut      1            Number of output connections

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                          Name     Description
  --------------------------------------------- -------- -----------------
  Step_in                                       inPort[n Vector of step
                                                In]      input connectors

  Step_out                                      outPort[ Vector of step
                                                nOut]    output connectors
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block Step 
      "Ordinary step (= step that is not active when simulation starts)"

      output Boolean active 
        "= true if step is active, otherwise the step is not active";

      extends Interfaces.PartialStep;

    initial equation 
      active = false;
    equation 
      active = localActive;
    end Step;

* * * * *

[image33] Modelica.StateGraph.StepWithSignal
============================================

Ordinary step (= step that is not active when simulation starts).
Connector 'active' is true when the step is active

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialStep (Partial step with one input and one
output transition port).

Parameters
----------

  Type         Name      Default      Description
  ------------ --------- ------------ ---------------------------------
  Integer      nIn       1            Number of input connections
  Integer      nOut      1            Number of output connections

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                           Name     Description
  ---------------------------------------------- -------- ----------------
  Step_in                                        inPort[n Vector of step
                                                 In]      input connectors

  Step_out                                       outPort[ Vector of step
                                                 nOut]    output
                                                          connectors

  output BooleanOutput                           active   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block StepWithSignal 
      "Ordinary step (= step that is not active when simulation starts). Connector 'active' is true when the step is active"

      extends Interfaces.PartialStep;

      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanOutput active;
    initial equation 
      active = false;
    equation 
      active = localActive;
    end StepWithSignal;

* * * * *

[image34] Modelica.StateGraph.Transition
========================================

Transition where the fire condition is set by a modification of variable
condition

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialTransition (Partial transition with input
and output connections).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                        Name      Defaul Description
                                        t      
  --------------------------- --------- ------ ----------------------------
  Boolean                     localCond condit = true, if transition may
                              ition     ion    fire

  Fire condition                               

  Boolean                     condition true   = true, if transition may
                                               fire (time varying
                                               expression)

  Timer                                        

  Boolean                     enableTim false  = true, if timer is enabled
                              er               

  Time                        waitTime  0      Wait time before transition
                                               fires [s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Name  Description
  ----------------------------------------------- ----- -------------------
  Transition_in                                   inPor Vector of
                                                  t     transition input
                                                        connectors

  Transition_out                                  outPo Vector of
                                                  rt    transition output
                                                        connectors
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block Transition 
      "Transition where the fire condition is set by a modification of variable condition"

      input Boolean condition=true 
        "= true, if transition may fire (time varying expression)";

      extends Interfaces.PartialTransition(final localCondition=condition);


    end Transition;

* * * * *

[image35] Modelica.StateGraph.TransitionWithSignal
==================================================

Transition where the fire condition is set by a Boolean input signal

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialTransition (Partial transition with input
and output connections).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                            Name       Default Description
  ------------------------------- ---------- ------- ----------------------
  Boolean                         localCondi conditi = true, if transition
                                  tion       on      may fire

  Timer                                              

  Boolean                         enableTime false   = true, if timer is
                                  r                  enabled

  Time                            waitTime   0       Wait time before
                                                     transition fires [s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                           Name   Description
  ---------------------------------------------- ------ ------------------
  input BooleanInput                             condit 
                                                 ion    

  Transition_in                                  inPort Vector of
                                                        transition input
                                                        connectors

  Transition_out                                 outPor Vector of
                                                 t      transition output
                                                        connectors
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block TransitionWithSignal 
      "Transition where the fire condition is set by a Boolean input signal"

      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput condition;

      extends Interfaces.PartialTransition(final localCondition=condition);


    end TransitionWithSignal;

* * * * *

[image36] Modelica.StateGraph.Alternative
=========================================

Alternative splitting of execution path (use component between two
steps)

Information
-----------

::

::

Parameters
----------

  Type        Name          Default     Description
  ----------- ------------- ----------- ----------------------------------
  Integer     nBranches     2           Number of alternative branches

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name      Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- -------
  Transition_in                                          inPort    

  Transition_out                                         outPort   

  Step_in_forAlternative                                 join[nBra 
                                                         nches]    

  Step_out_forAlternative                                split[nBr 
                                                         anches]   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block Alternative 
      "Alternative splitting of execution path (use component between two steps)"

      parameter Integer nBranches(min=1)=2 "Number of alternative branches";
      Interfaces.Transition_in inPort;
      Interfaces.Transition_out outPort;
      Step_in_forAlternative join[nBranches];
      Step_out_forAlternative split[nBranches];

    protected 
    connector Step_in_forAlternative 
        "Input port of a step (has special icon for usage in component 'Alternative')"

      output Boolean occupied "true, if step is active";
      input Boolean set "true, if transition fires and step is activated";

    end Step_in_forAlternative;

    connector Step_out_forAlternative 
        "Output port of a step (has special icon for usage in component 'Alternative')"

      output Boolean available "true, if step is active";
      input Boolean reset "true, if transition fires and step is deactivated";

    end Step_out_forAlternative;

    equation 
      // Check connections of connectors

      assert(cardinality(inPort) == 1,
        "Connector inPort is not connected to exactly one other connector");

      assert(cardinality(outPort) == 1,
        "Connector outPort is not connected to exactly one other connector");

      for i in 1:nBranches loop

         assert(cardinality(split[i]) == 1,
           "Connector is not connected to exactly one other connector");

         assert(cardinality(join[i]) == 1,
           "Connector is not connected to exactly one other connector");

      end for;

      // Propagate flags between the connectors

      for i in 1:nBranches loop
         split[i].available = if i==1 then inPort.available else 
                                           split[i-1].available and not split[i-1].reset;

      end for;
      join.occupied = fill(outPort.occupied, nBranches);
      inPort.reset  = StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(split.reset);
      outPort.set   = StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(join.set);
    end Alternative;

* * * * *

[image37] Modelica.StateGraph.Parallel
======================================

Parallel splitting of execution path (use component between two
transitions)

Information
-----------

::

::

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- --------------------------------------------
  Integer  nBranches  2        Number of parallel branches that are
                               executed in parallel
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name      Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- -------
  Step_in                                                inPort    

  Step_out                                               outPort   

  Transition_in_forParallel                              join[nBra 
                                                         nches]    

  Transition_out_forParallel                             split[nBr 
                                                         anches]   
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block Parallel 
      "Parallel splitting of execution path (use component between two transitions)"

      parameter Integer nBranches(min=1)=2 
        "Number of parallel branches that are executed in parallel";
      Interfaces.Step_in inPort;
      Interfaces.Step_out outPort;
      Transition_in_forParallel join[nBranches];
      Transition_out_forParallel split[nBranches];

    protected 
    connector Transition_in_forParallel 
        "Input port of a transition (has special icon for usage in component 'Parallel')"

      input Boolean available 
          "true, if step connected to the transition input is active";
      output Boolean reset 
          "true, if transition fires and the step connected to the transition input is deactivated";

    end Transition_in_forParallel;

    connector Transition_out_forParallel 
        "Output port of a transition (has special icon for usage in component 'Parallel')"

      input Boolean occupied 
          "true, if step connected to the transition output is active";
      output Boolean set 
          "true, if transition fires and step connected to the transition output becomes active";

    end Transition_out_forParallel;

    equation 
      // Check connections of connectors

      assert(cardinality(inPort) == 1,
        "Connector inPort is not connected to exactly one other connector");

      assert(cardinality(outPort) == 1,
        "Connector outPort is not connected to exactly one other connector");

      for i in 1:nBranches loop

         assert(cardinality(split[i]) == 1,
           "Connector is not connected to exactly one other connector");

         assert(cardinality(join[i]) == 1,
           "Connector is not connected to exactly one other connector");

      end for;

      // Propagate flags between the connectors
      split.set  = fill(inPort.set, nBranches);
      join.reset = fill(outPort.reset, nBranches);
      inPort.occupied   = StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(split.occupied);
      outPort.available = StateGraph.Temporary.allTrue(join.available);
    end Parallel;

* * * * *

[image38] Modelica.StateGraph.PartialCompositeStep
==================================================

Superclass of a subgraph, i.e., a composite step that has internally a
StateGraph

Information
-----------

::

::

Parameters
----------

  Type                    Name        Default    Description
  ----------------------- ----------- ---------- -------------------------
  Exception connections                          
  Integer                 nSuspend    1          Number of suspend ports
  Integer                 nResume     1          Number of resume ports

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name      Descrip
                                                                   tion
  ------------------------------------------------------ --------- -------
  Step_in                                                inPort    

  Step_out                                               outPort   

  CompositeStep_suspend                                  suspend[n 
                                                         Suspend]  

  CompositeStep_resume                                   resume[nR 
                                                         esume]    
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialCompositeStep 
      "Superclass of a subgraph, i.e., a composite step that has internally a StateGraph"

      parameter Integer nSuspend = 1 "Number of suspend ports";
      parameter Integer nResume = 1 "Number of resume ports";

      /* The modification of stateGraphRoot is with respect to the "inner"
         definition, i.e., it is reported to all components that are
         within the CompositeStep
      */
      inner outer StateGraph.Interfaces.CompositeStepState stateGraphRoot(
                      suspend = StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(suspend.reset) or outerState.subgraphStatePort.suspend,
                      resume =  StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(resume.set) or outerState.subgraphStatePort.resume) 
        "Communication port between the CompositeStep and the steps within the CompositeStep";
      output Boolean active 
        "= true if step is active, otherwise the step is not active";
      StateGraph.Interfaces.Step_in inPort;
      StateGraph.Interfaces.Step_out outPort;
      StateGraph.Interfaces.CompositeStep_suspend suspend[nSuspend];
      StateGraph.Interfaces.CompositeStep_resume resume[nResume];

      model OuterState 
        "Block containing the port that is connected to the outer stateGraphRoot"
        Interfaces.CompositeStepStatePort_in subgraphStatePort 
          "Port connected to outer stateGraphRoot";
      end OuterState;
      OuterState outerState;

    protected 
      model InnerState
        outer Interfaces.CompositeStepState stateGraphRoot;
      end InnerState;
      InnerState innerState;

      Boolean newActive "Value of active in the next iteration";
      Integer activeSteps "Number of active steps within the CompositeStep";
    initial equation 

      pre(newActive) = pre(active);
    equation 
      // connect to outer CompositeStep

      connect(outerState.subgraphStatePort, stateGraphRoot.subgraphStatePort);
      outerState.subgraphStatePort.activeSteps = if active then 1.0 else 0.0;

      // set active flag  of CompositeStep
      activeSteps = -integer(innerState.stateGraphRoot.subgraphStatePort.activeSteps);
      active = pre(newActive);

      /* The CompositeStep is active if
         - at least one step within the CompositeStep is active, and
         - the suspend transition does not fire, and
         - the suspend transition of a higher level CompositeStep does not fire or
         - no step within the CompositeStep is active, and
         - the resume transition fires or the resume transition of
           a higher level CompositeStep fires.
      */
      // newActive = activeSteps > 0 and not suspend.reset or resume.set;
      newActive = activeSteps > 0 and not StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(suspend.reset) and not 
                  outerState.subgraphStatePort.suspend or 
                  StateGraph.Temporary.anyTrue(resume.set) or outerState.subgraphStatePort.resume;

      // Report state to suspend and resume transitions

      for i in 1:nResume loop
        resume[i].occupied = if i == 1 then active else 
                                            resume[i-1].occupied or 
                                            resume[i-1].set;

      end for;

      for i in 1:nSuspend loop
         suspend[i].available = if i == 1 then active else 
                                               suspend[i-1].available and not 
                                               suspend[i-1].reset;

      end for;

      /* Check that connections to the connectors are correct
         and set appropriate defaults if necessary
      */

      for i in 1:nSuspend loop

      assert(cardinality(suspend[i]) <= 1,
    "Connector suspend[" + String(i) + "] of the CompositeStep is connected
    to more than one transition");

        if cardinality(suspend[i]) == 0 then
          suspend[i].reset = false;

        end if;

      end for;

      for i in 1:nResume loop

      assert(cardinality(resume[i]) <= 1,
    "Connector resume[" + String(i) + "] of the CompositeStep is connected
    to more than one transition");

        if cardinality(resume[i]) == 0 then
          resume[i].set = false;

        end if;

      end for;

      /* Zero sized connectors are not yet fully supported in
         Dymola. This requires to set the dimension of the connector
         to 1, if it should have a dimension of zero. This requires
         to set the connector variables to a default value in this case
      */

      if cardinality(inPort) < 2 then
        inPort.occupied = false;
        inPort.set = false;

      end if;

      if cardinality(outPort) < 2 then
        outPort.available = false;
        outPort.reset = false;

      end if;

      // Check inPort/outPort connections

      assert(cardinality(inPort) <= 2,
    "Connector inPort of the CompositeStep has more than 2 connections.
    It should have only one connection from the outside to the
    inPort and one connection to a step inside the CompositeStep.");

      assert(cardinality(outPort) <= 2,
    "Connector outPort of the CompositeStep has more than 2 connections.
    It should have only one connection from the outPort to the
    outside to the CompositeStep and one connection from a step
    inside the CompositeStep to the outPort connector.");

    end PartialCompositeStep;

* * * * *

[image39] Modelica.StateGraph.StateGraphRoot
============================================

Root of a StateGraph (has to be present on the highest level of a
StateGraph)

Information
-----------

::

On the highest level of a StateGraph, an instance of StateGraphRoot has
to be present. If it is not within in a model, it is automatically
included by a Modelica translator due to an appropriate annotation.
Practically, this means that it need not be present in a StateGraph
model.

The StateGraphRoot object is needed, since all Step objects have an
"outer" reference to communicate with the "nearest" CompositeStep (which
inherits from PartialCompositeStep), especially to abort a CompositeStep
via the "suspend" port. Even if no "CompositeStep" is present, on
highest level a corresponding "inner" definition is needed and is
provided by the StateGraphRoot object.

::

Extends from StateGraph.Interfaces.CompositeStepState (Communication
channel between CompositeSteps and steps in the CompositeStep).

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name      Descri
                                                                    ption
  ------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------
  CompositeStepStatePort_out                              subgraphS 
                                                          tatePort  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model StateGraphRoot 
      "Root of a StateGraph (has to be present on the highest level of a StateGraph)"

      extends StateGraph.Interfaces.CompositeStepState;
      output Integer activeSteps "Number of active steps within the stategraph";

    equation 
      activeSteps = -integer(subgraphStatePort.activeSteps);
    end StateGraphRoot;

* * * * *

[Modelica.StateGraph.Alternative.Step_in_forAlternative] Modelica.StateGraph.Alternative.Step_in_forAlternative
===============================================================================================================

Input port of a step (has special icon for usage in component
'Alternative')

Contents
--------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type             Name        Description
  ---------------- ----------- --------------------------------------------
  output Boolean   occupied    true, if step is active

  input Boolean    set         true, if transition fires and step is
                               activated
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Step_in_forAlternative 
      "Input port of a step (has special icon for usage in component 'Alternative')"

      output Boolean occupied "true, if step is active";
      input Boolean set "true, if transition fires and step is activated";

    end Step_in_forAlternative;

* * * * *

[Modelica.StateGraph.Alternative.Step_out_forAlternative] Modelica.StateGraph.Alternative.Step_out_forAlternative
=================================================================================================================

Output port of a step (has special icon for usage in component
'Alternative')

Contents
--------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type            Name        Description
  --------------- ----------- --------------------------------------------
  output Boolean  available   true, if step is active

  input Boolean   reset       true, if transition fires and step is
                              deactivated
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Step_out_forAlternative 
      "Output port of a step (has special icon for usage in component 'Alternative')"

      output Boolean available "true, if step is active";
      input Boolean reset "true, if transition fires and step is deactivated";

    end Step_out_forAlternative;

* * * * *

[Modelica.StateGraph.Parallel.Transition_in_forParallel] Modelica.StateGraph.Parallel.Transition_in_forParallel
===============================================================================================================

Input port of a transition (has special icon for usage in component
'Parallel')

Contents
--------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type       Name     Description
  ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------------
  input      availabl true, if step connected to the transition input is
  Boolean    e        active

  output     reset    true, if transition fires and the step connected to
  Boolean             the transition input is deactivated
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Transition_in_forParallel 
      "Input port of a transition (has special icon for usage in component 'Parallel')"

      input Boolean available 
        "true, if step connected to the transition input is active";
      output Boolean reset 
        "true, if transition fires and the step connected to the transition input is deactivated";

    end Transition_in_forParallel;

* * * * *

[Modelica.StateGraph.Parallel.Transition_out_forParallel] Modelica.StateGraph.Parallel.Transition_out_forParallel
=================================================================================================================

Output port of a transition (has special icon for usage in component
'Parallel')

Contents
--------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type        Name    Description
  ----------- ------- ----------------------------------------------------
  input       occupie true, if step connected to the transition output is
  Boolean     d       active

  output      set     true, if transition fires and step connected to the
  Boolean             transition output becomes active
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Transition_out_forParallel 
      "Output port of a transition (has special icon for usage in component 'Parallel')"

      input Boolean occupied 
        "true, if step connected to the transition output is active";
      output Boolean set 
        "true, if transition fires and step connected to the transition output becomes active";

    end Transition_out_forParallel;

* * * * *

Modelica.StateGraph.PartialCompositeStep.OuterState
===================================================

Block containing the port that is connected to the outer stateGraphRoot

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Name     Description
  ----------------------------------------------- -------- ---------------
  CompositeStepStatePort_in                       subgraph Port connected
                                                  StatePor to outer
                                                  t        stateGraphRoot
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model OuterState 
      "Block containing the port that is connected to the outer stateGraphRoot"
      Interfaces.CompositeStepStatePort_in subgraphStatePort 
        "Port connected to outer stateGraphRoot";
    end OuterState;

* * * * *

Modelica.StateGraph.PartialCompositeStep.InnerState
===================================================

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model InnerState
      outer Interfaces.CompositeStepState stateGraphRoot;
    end InnerState;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:27:41 2010.
