Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal



Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal
================================

Ideal electrical elements such as switches, diode, transformer,
operational amplifier

Information
-----------

::

This package contains electrical components with idealized behaviour. To
enable more realistic applications than it is possible with pure
realistic behavior some components are improved by additional features.
E.g. the switches have resistances for the open or close case which can
be parametrized.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                                   Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ -----------------
  [image25] IdealThyristor                               Ideal thyristor

  [image26] IdealGTOThyristor                            Ideal GTO
                                                         thyristor

  [image27] IdealCommutingSwitch                         Ideal commuting
                                                         switch

  [image28] IdealIntermediateSwitch                      Ideal
                                                         intermediate
                                                         switch

  [image29] ControlledIdealCommutingSwitch               Controlled ideal
                                                         commuting switch

  [image30] ControlledIdealIntermediateSwitch            Controlled ideal
                                                         intermediate
                                                         switch

  [image31] IdealOpAmp                                   Ideal operational
                                                         amplifier
                                                         (norator-nullator
                                                         pair)

  [image32] IdealOpAmp3Pin                               Ideal operational
                                                         amplifier
                                                         (norator-nullator
                                                         pair), but 3 pins

  [image33] IdealOpAmpLimited                            Ideal operational
                                                         amplifier with
                                                         limitation

  [image34] IdealDiode                                   Ideal diode

  [image35] IdealTransformer                             Ideal transformer
                                                         core with or
                                                         without
                                                         magnetization

  [image36] IdealGyrator                                 Ideal gyrator

  [image37] Idle                                         Idle branch

  [image38] Short                                        Short cut branch

  [image39] IdealOpeningSwitch                           Ideal electrical
                                                         opener

  [image40] IdealClosingSwitch                           Ideal electrical
                                                         closer

  [image41] ControlledIdealOpeningSwitch                 Controlled ideal
                                                         electrical opener

  [image42] ControlledIdealClosingSwitch                 Controlled ideal
                                                         electrical closer

  [image43] OpenerWithArc                                Ideal opening
                                                         switch with
                                                         simple arc model

  [image44] CloserWithArc                                Ideal closing
                                                         switch with
                                                         simple arc model

  [image45] ControlledOpenerWithArc                      Controlled ideal
                                                         electrical opener
                                                         with simple arc
                                                         model

  [image46] ControlledCloserWithArc                      Controlled ideal
                                                         electrical closer
                                                         with simple arc
                                                         model

  [image47] IdealTriac                                   Ideal triac,
                                                         based on ideal
                                                         thyristors

  [image48] AD_Converter                                 Simple n-bit
                                                         analog to digital
                                                         converter

  [image49] DA_Converter                                 Simple digital to
                                                         analog converter
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image50] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealThyristor
=========================================================

Ideal thyristor

Information
-----------

::

This is an ideal thyristor model which is
    open(off), if the voltage drop is less than 0 or fire is false
    closed (on), if the voltage drop is greater or equal 0 and fire is

true.

This is the behaviour if all parameters are exactly zero.
    Note, there are circuits, where this ideal description with zero

resistance and zero cinductance is not possible. In order to prevent
singularities during switching, the opened thyristor has a small
conductance Goff and the closed thyristor has a low resistance Ron which
is default.

The parameter Vknee which is the forward threshold voltage, allows to
displace the knee point along the Goff-characteristic until v = Vknee.
Please note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of
the electrical behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not
temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed thyristor
                                                  resistance [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened thyristor
                                                  conductance [S]

  Voltage                           Vknee         Forward threshold voltage
                                                  [V]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 

  input BooleanInput                          fire 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealThyristor "Ideal thyristor"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Closed thyristor resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened thyristor conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vknee(final min=0, start=0) 
        "Forward threshold voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(
         final T=293.15);
      Boolean off(start=true) "Switching state";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput fire;
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") 
        "Auxiliary variable: if on then current, if opened then voltage";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      off = s < 0 or pre(off) and not fire;
      v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if off then 1 else Ron) + Vknee;
      i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if off then Goff else 1) + Goff*Vknee;
      LossPower = v*i;
    end IdealThyristor;

* * * * *

[image51] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealGTOThyristor
============================================================

Ideal GTO thyristor

Information
-----------

::

This is an ideal GTO thyristor model which is
    open(off), if the voltage drop is less than 0 or fire is false
    closed (on), if the voltage drop is greater or equal 0 and fire is

true.

This is the behaviour if all parameters are exactly zero.
    Note, there are circuits, where this ideal description with zero

resistance and zero cinductance is not possible. In order to prevent
singularities during switching, the opened thyristor has a small
conductance Goff and the closed thyristor has a low resistance Ron which
is default.

The parameter Vknee which is the forward threshold voltage, allows to
displace the knee point along the Goff-characteristic until v = Vknee.
Please note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of
the electrical behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not
temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed thyristor
                                                  resistance [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened thyristor
                                                  conductance [S]

  Voltage                           Vknee         Forward threshold voltage
                                                  [V]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 

  input BooleanInput                          fire 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealGTOThyristor "Ideal GTO thyristor"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Closed thyristor resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened thyristor conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vknee(final min=0, start=0) 
        "Forward threshold voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(
         final T=293.15);
      Boolean off(start=true) "Switching state";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput fire;
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") 
        "Auxiliary variable: if on then current, if opened then voltage";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      off = s < 0 or not fire;
      v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if off then 1 else Ron) + Vknee;
      i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if off then Goff else 1) + Goff*Vknee;
      LossPower = v*i;
    end IdealGTOThyristor;

* * * * *

[image52] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealCommutingSwitch
===============================================================

Ideal commuting switch

Information
-----------

::

The commuting switch has a positive pin p and two negative pins n1 and
n2. The switching behaviour is controlled by the inpug signal control.
If control is true, the pin p is connected with the negative pin n2.
Otherwise, the pin p is connected to the negative pin n1.

In order to prevent singularities during switching, the opened switch
has a (very low) conductance Goff and the closed switch has a (very low)
resistance Ron. The limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance
Ron of the closed switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff
of the open switch could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits,
where a description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible. Please
note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the
electrical behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature
dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                           Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------------- ----- --------------------
  HeatPort_a                                     heatP 
                                                 ort   

  PositivePin                                    p     

  NegativePin                                    n2    

  NegativePin                                    n1    

  input BooleanInput                             contr true => p--n2
                                                 ol    connected, false =>
                                                       p--n1 connected
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealCommutingSwitch "Ideal commuting switch"
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Interfaces.PositivePin p;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n2;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n1;
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput control 
        "true => p--n2 connected, false => p--n1 connected";
    protected 
      Real s1(final unit="1");
      Real s2(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variables";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      0 = p.i + n2.i + n1.i;

      p.v - n1.v = (s1*unitCurrent)*(if (control) then 1 else Ron);
      n1.i = -(s1*unitVoltage)*(if (control) then Goff else 1);
      p.v - n2.v = (s2*unitCurrent)*(if (control) then Ron else 1);
      n2.i = -(s2*unitVoltage)*(if (control) then 1 else Goff);
      LossPower = p.i * p.v + n1.i *n1.v + n2.i * n2.v;
    end IdealCommutingSwitch;

* * * * *

[image53] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealIntermediateSwitch
==================================================================

Ideal intermediate switch

Information
-----------

::

The intermediate switch has four switching contact pins p1, p2, n1, and
n2. The switching behaviour is controlled by the input signal control.
If control is true, the pin p1 is connected to the pin n2, and the pin
p2 is connected to the pin n1. Otherwise,if control is false, the pin p1
is connected to n1, and the pin p2 is connected to n2.

In order to prevent singularities during switching, the opened switch
has a (very low) conductance Goff and the closed switch has a (very low)
resistance Ron.

The limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance Ron of the
closed switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff of the open
switch could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits, where a
description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible.

Please note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of
the electrical behavior is notmodelled. The parameters are not
temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Description
  ----------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------
  HeatPort_a                                heat 
                                            Port 

  PositivePin                               p1   

  PositivePin                               p2   

  NegativePin                               n1   

  NegativePin                               n2   

  input BooleanInput                        cont true => p1--n2, p2--n1
                                            rol  connected, otherwise
                                                 p1--n1, p2--n2 connected
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealIntermediateSwitch "Ideal intermediate switch"
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Interfaces.PositivePin p1;
      Interfaces.PositivePin p2;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n1;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n2;
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput control 
        "true => p1--n2, p2--n1 connected, otherwise p1--n1, p2--n2  connected";
    protected 
      Real s1(final unit="1");
      Real s2(final unit="1");
      Real s3(final unit="1");
      Real s4(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variables";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      p1.v - n1.v = (s1*unitCurrent)*(if (control) then 1 else Ron);
      p2.v - n2.v = (s2*unitCurrent)*(if (control) then 1 else Ron);
      p1.v - n2.v = (s3*unitCurrent)*(if (control) then Ron else 1);
      p2.v - n1.v = (s4*unitCurrent)*(if (control) then Ron else 1);

      p1.i = if control then s1*unitVoltage*Goff + s3*unitCurrent else s1*unitCurrent + s3*unitVoltage*Goff;
      p2.i = if control then s2*unitVoltage*Goff + s4*unitCurrent else s2*unitCurrent + s4*unitVoltage*Goff;
      n1.i = if control then -s1*unitVoltage*Goff - s4*unitCurrent else -s1*unitCurrent - s4*unitVoltage*Goff;
      n2.i = if control then -s2*unitVoltage*Goff - s3*unitCurrent else -s2*unitCurrent - s3*unitVoltage*Goff;

      LossPower = p1.i * p1.v + p2.i * p2.v + n1.i *n1.v + n2.i * n2.v;
    end IdealIntermediateSwitch;

* * * * *

[image54] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.ControlledIdealCommutingSwitch
=========================================================================

Controlled ideal commuting switch

Information
-----------

::

The commuting switch has a positive pin p and two negative pins n1 and
n2. The switching behaviour is controlled by the control pin. If its
voltage exceeds the value of the parameter level, the pin p is connected
with the negative pin n2. Otherwise, the pin p is connected the negative
pin n1.

In order to prevent singularities during switching, the opened switch
has a (very low) conductance Goff and the closed switch has a (very low)
resistance Ron. The limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance
Ron of the closed switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff
of the open switch could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits,
where a description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible. Please
note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the
electrical behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature
dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Voltage                           level   0.5   Switch level [V]

  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name Description
  ---------------------------------------- ---- ---------------------------
  HeatPort_a                               heat 
                                           Port 

  PositivePin                              p    

  NegativePin                              n2   

  NegativePin                              n1   

  Pin                                      cont Control pin: if control.v >
                                           rol  level p--n2 connected,
                                                otherwise p--n1 connected
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ControlledIdealCommutingSwitch 
      "Controlled ideal commuting switch"
      parameter SI.Voltage level=0.5 "Switch level";
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Interfaces.PositivePin p;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n2;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n1;
      Interfaces.Pin control 
        "Control pin: if control.v > level p--n2 connected, otherwise p--n1 connected";
    protected 
      Real s1(final unit="1");
      Real s2(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variables";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      control.i = 0;
      0 = p.i + n2.i + n1.i;

      p.v - n1.v = (s1*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then 1 else Ron);
      n1.i = -(s1*unitVoltage)*(if (control.v > level) then Goff else 1);
      p.v - n2.v = (s2*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then Ron else 1);
      n2.i = -(s2*unitVoltage)*(if (control.v > level) then 1 else Goff);
      LossPower = p.i * p.v + n1.i *n1.v + n2.i * n2.v;
    end ControlledIdealCommutingSwitch;

* * * * *

[image55] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.ControlledIdealIntermediateSwitch
============================================================================

Controlled ideal intermediate switch

Information
-----------

::

The intermediate switch has four switching contact pins p1, p2, n1, and
n2. The switching behaviour is controlled by the control pin. If its
voltage exceeds the value of the parameter level, the pin p1 is
connected to pin n2, and the pin p2 is connected to the pin n1.
Otherwise, the pin p1 is connected to the pin n1, and the pin p2 is
connected to the pin n2. [image56] In order to prevent singularities
during switching, the opened switch has a (very low) conductance Goff
and the closed switch has a (very low) resistance Ron. [image57] The
limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance Ron of the closed
switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff of the open switch
could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits, where a
description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible.

Please note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of
the electrical behavior is notmodelled. The parameters are not
temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Voltage                           level   0.5   Switch level [V]

  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name Description
  ------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------------
  HeatPort_a                            heat 
                                        Port 

  PositivePin                           p1   

  PositivePin                           p2   

  NegativePin                           n1   

  NegativePin                           n2   

  Pin                                   cont Control pin: if control.v >
                                        rol  level p1--n2, p2--n1
                                             connected, otherwise p1--n1,
                                             p2--n2 connected
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ControlledIdealIntermediateSwitch 
      "Controlled ideal intermediate switch"
      parameter SI.Voltage level=0.5 "Switch level";
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Interfaces.PositivePin p1;
      Interfaces.PositivePin p2;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n1;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n2;
      Interfaces.Pin control "Control pin: if control.v > level p1--n2, p2--n1 connected,
             otherwise p1--n1, p2--n2  connected";
    protected 
      Real s1(final unit="1");
      Real s2(final unit="1");
      Real s3(final unit="1");
      Real s4(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variables";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      control.i = 0;

      p1.v - n1.v = (s1*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then 1 else Ron);
      p2.v - n2.v = (s2*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then 1 else Ron);
      p1.v - n2.v = (s3*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then Ron else 1);
      p2.v - n1.v = (s4*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then Ron else 1);

      p1.i = if control.v > level then s1*unitVoltage*Goff + s3*unitCurrent else s1*unitCurrent + s3*unitVoltage*Goff;
      p2.i = if control.v > level then s2*unitVoltage*Goff + s4*unitCurrent else s2*unitCurrent + s4*unitVoltage*Goff;
      n1.i = if control.v > level then -s1*unitVoltage*Goff - s4*unitCurrent else -s1*unitCurrent - s4*unitVoltage*Goff;
      n2.i = if control.v > level then -s2*unitVoltage*Goff - s3*unitCurrent else -s2*unitCurrent - s3*unitVoltage*Goff;

      LossPower = p1.i * p1.v + p2.i * p2.v + n1.i *n1.v + n2.i * n2.v;
    end ControlledIdealIntermediateSwitch;

* * * * *

[image58] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealOpAmp
=====================================================

Ideal operational amplifier (norator-nullator pair)

Information
-----------

::

The ideal OpAmp is a two-port. The left port is fixed to v1=0 and i1=0
(nullator). At the right port both any voltage v2 and any current i2 are
possible (norator).

::

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ---- ---------------
  PositivePin                                         p1   Positive pin of
                                                           the left port

  NegativePin                                         n1   Negative pin of
                                                           the left port

  PositivePin                                         p2   Positive pin of
                                                           the right port

  NegativePin                                         n2   Negative pin of
                                                           the right port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealOpAmp 
      "Ideal operational amplifier (norator-nullator pair)"
      SI.Voltage v1 "Voltage drop over the left port";
      SI.Voltage v2 "Voltage drop over the right port";
      SI.Current i1 "Current flowing from pos. to neg. pin of the left port";
      SI.Current i2 "Current flowing from pos. to neg. pin of the right port";
      Interfaces.PositivePin p1 "Positive pin of the left port";
      Interfaces.NegativePin n1 "Negative pin of the left port";
      Interfaces.PositivePin p2 "Positive pin of the right port";
      Interfaces.NegativePin n2 "Negative pin of the right port";
    equation 
      v1 = p1.v - n1.v;
      v2 = p2.v - n2.v;
      0 = p1.i + n1.i;
      0 = p2.i + n2.i;
      i1 = p1.i;
      i2 = p2.i;
      v1 = 0;
      i1 = 0;
    end IdealOpAmp;

* * * * *

[image59] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealOpAmp3Pin
=========================================================

Ideal operational amplifier (norator-nullator pair), but 3 pins

Information
-----------

::

The ideal OpAmp with three pins is of exactly the same behaviour as the
ideal OpAmp with four pins. Only the negative output pin is left out.
Both the input voltage and current are fixed to zero (nullator). At the
output pin both any voltage v2 and any current i2 are possible.

::

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ---- ---------------
  PositivePin                                         in_p Positive pin of
                                                           the input port

  NegativePin                                         in_n Negative pin of
                                                           the input port

  PositivePin                                         out  Output pin
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealOpAmp3Pin 
      "Ideal operational amplifier (norator-nullator pair), but 3 pins"

      Interfaces.PositivePin in_p "Positive pin of the input port";
      Interfaces.NegativePin in_n "Negative pin of the input port";
      Interfaces.PositivePin out "Output pin";
    equation 
      in_p.v = in_n.v;
      in_p.i = 0;
      in_n.i = 0;
    end IdealOpAmp3Pin;

* * * * *

[image60] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealOpAmpLimited
============================================================

Ideal operational amplifier with limitation

Information
-----------

::

The ideal OpAmp with limitation behaves like an ideal OpAmp without
limitation, if the output voltage is within the limits VMin and VMax. In
this case the input voltage vin = in_p.v - in_n.v is zero. If the input
voltage vin less than 0, the output voltage is out.v = VMin. If the
input voltage is vin larger than 0, the output voltage is out.v = VMax.

::

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                               Name Description
  -------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------------
  PositivePin                                        in_p Positive pin of
                                                          the input port

  NegativePin                                        in_n Negative pin of
                                                          the input port

  PositivePin                                        out  Output pin

  PositivePin                                        VMax Positive output
                                                          voltage
                                                          limitation

  NegativePin                                        VMin Negative output
                                                          voltage
                                                          limitation
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealOpAmpLimited "Ideal operational amplifier with limitation"

      Interfaces.PositivePin in_p "Positive pin of the input port";
      Interfaces.NegativePin in_n "Negative pin of the input port";
      Interfaces.PositivePin out "Output pin";
      Interfaces.PositivePin VMax "Positive output voltage limitation";
      Interfaces.NegativePin VMin "Negative output voltage limitation";
      SI.Voltage vin "input voltage";
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variable";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;

    equation 
      in_p.i = 0;
      in_n.i = 0;
      VMax.i = 0;
      VMin.i = 0;
      vin = in_p.v - in_n.v;
      in_p.v - in_n.v = unitVoltage*smooth(0,(if s < -1 then s + 1 else if s > 1 then s - 1 else 0));
      out.v = smooth(0,if s < -1 then VMin.v else if s > 1 then VMax.v else (VMax.v - VMin.v)*s/2 + (VMax.v + VMin.v)/2);
    end IdealOpAmpLimited;

* * * * *

[image61] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealDiode
=====================================================

Ideal diode

Information
-----------

::

This is an ideal switch which is
    open(off), if it is reversed biased (voltage drop less than 0)
    closed (on), if it is conducting (current > 0). This is the
    behaviour if all parameters are exactly zero. Note, there are
    circuits, where this ideal description with zero

resistance and zero cinductance is not possible. In order to prevent
singularities during switching, the opened diode has a small conductance
Gon and the closed diode has a low resistance Roff which is default.

The parameter Vknee which is the forward threshold voltage, allows to
displace the knee point along the Gon-characteristic until v = Vknee.
Please note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of
the electrical behavior is not modelled.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                          Name   Defa Description
                                       ult  
  ----------------------------- ------ ---- -------------------------------
  Resistance                    Ron    1.E- Forward state-on differential
                                       5    resistance (closed diode
                                            resistance) [Ohm]

  Conductance                   Goff   1.E- Backward state-off conductance
                                       5    (opened diode conductance) [S]

  Voltage                       Vknee       Forward threshold voltage [V]

  Boolean                       useHea fals =true, if HeatPort is enabled
                                tPort  e    

  Temperature                   T      293. Fixed device temperature if
                                       15   useHeatPort = false [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealDiode "Ideal diode"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Forward state-on differential resistance (closed diode resistance)";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Backward state-off conductance (opened diode conductance)";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vknee(final min=0, start=0) 
        "Forward threshold voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort;
      Boolean off(start=true) "Switching state";
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") 
        "Auxiliary variable for actual position on the ideal diode characteristic";
      /* s = 0: knee point
         s < 0: below knee point, diode conducting
         s > 0: above knee point, diode locking */
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      off = s < 0;
      v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if off then 1 else Ron) + Vknee;
      i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if off then Goff else 1) + Goff*Vknee;

      LossPower = v*i;
    end IdealDiode;

* * * * *

[image62] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealTransformer
===========================================================

Ideal transformer core with or without magnetization

Information
-----------

::

The ideal transformer is a two-port circuit element; in case of Boolean
parameter considerMagnetization = false it is characterized by the
following equations:

    i2 = -i1*n;
    v2 =  v1/n;

where n is a real number called the turns ratio. Due to this equations,
also DC voltages and currents are transformed - which is not the case
for technical transformers.

In case of Boolean parameter considerMagnetization = true it is
characterized by the following equations:

    im1  = i1 + i2/n "Magnetizing current w.r.t. primary side";
    psim1= Lm1*im1   "Magnetic flux w.r.t. primary side";
    v1 = der(psim1)  "Primary voltage";
    v2 = v1/n        "Secondary voltage";

where Lm denotes the magnetizing inductance. Due to this equations, the
DC offset of secondary voltages and currents decrement according to the
time constant defined by the connected circuit.

Taking primary L1sigma and secondary L2ssigma leakage inductances into
account, compared with the basic transformer the following parameter
conversion can be applied (which leads to identical results):

    L1 = L1sigma + M*n "Primary inductance at secondary no-load";
    L2 = L2sigma + M/n "Secondary inductance at primary no-load";
     M  = Lm1/n         "Mutual inductance";

For the backward conversion, one has to decide about the partitioning of
the leakage to primary and secondary side.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.TwoPort (Component
with two electrical ports, including current).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                            Name        Defau Description
                                              lt    
  ------------------------------- ----------- ----- -----------------------
  Real                            n                 Turns ratio
                                                    primary:secondary
                                                    voltage

  Boolean                         considerMag false Choice of considering
                                  netization        magnetization

  Inductance                      Lm1               Magnetization
                                                    inductance w.r.t.
                                                    primary side [H]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Nam Description
                                         e   
  -------------------------------------- --- ------------------------------
  PositivePin                            p1  Positive pin of the left port
                                             (potential p1.v > n1.v for
                                             positive voltage drop v1)

  NegativePin                            n1  Negative pin of the left port

  PositivePin                            p2  Positive pin of the right port
                                             (potential p2.v > n2.v for
                                             positive voltage drop v2)

  NegativePin                            n2  Negative pin of the right port
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealTransformer 
      "Ideal transformer core with or without magnetization"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.TwoPort;
      parameter Real n(start=1) "Turns ratio primary:secondary voltage";
      parameter Boolean considerMagnetization=false 
        "Choice of considering magnetization";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Inductance Lm1(start=1) 
        "Magnetization inductance w.r.t. primary side";
    protected 
      Modelica.SIunits.Current im1 "Magnetization current w.r.t. primary side";
      Modelica.SIunits.MagneticFlux psim1 "Magnetic flux w.r.t. primary side";
    equation 
      im1 = i1 + i2/n;
      if considerMagnetization then
        psim1 = Lm1*im1;
        v1 = der(psim1);
      else
        psim1= 0;
        im1 = 0;
      end if;
      v1 =  n*v2;
    end IdealTransformer;

* * * * *

[image63] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealGyrator
=======================================================

Ideal gyrator

Information
-----------

::

A gyrator is an ideal two-port element defined by the following
equations: i1 =  G * v2     i2 = -G * v1 where the constant G is called
the gyration conductance.

::

Extends from Interfaces.TwoPort (Component with two electrical ports,
including current).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                       Name  Default Description
  ------------------------------------------ ----- ------- -----------------
  Conductance                                G             Gyration
                                                           conductance [S]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Nam Description
                                         e   
  -------------------------------------- --- ------------------------------
  PositivePin                            p1  Positive pin of the left port
                                             (potential p1.v > n1.v for
                                             positive voltage drop v1)

  NegativePin                            n1  Negative pin of the left port

  PositivePin                            p2  Positive pin of the right port
                                             (potential p2.v > n2.v for
                                             positive voltage drop v2)

  NegativePin                            n2  Negative pin of the right port
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealGyrator "Ideal gyrator"
      extends Interfaces.TwoPort;
      parameter SI.Conductance G(start=1) "Gyration conductance";

    equation 
      i1 = G*v2;
      i2 = -G*v1;
    end IdealGyrator;

* * * * *

[image64] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.Idle
===============================================

Idle branch

Information
-----------

::

The model Idle is a simple idle running branch. That means between both
pins no current is running. This ideal device is of no influence on the
circuit. Therefore, it can be neglected in each case. For purposes of
completness this component is part of the MSL, as an opposite of the
short cut.

::

Extends from Interfaces.OnePort (Component with two electrical pins p
and n and current i from p to n).

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Nam Description
                                              e   
  ------------------------------------------- --- -------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p   Positive pin (potential
                                                  p.v > n.v for positive
                                                  voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n   Negative pin
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Idle "Idle branch"
      extends Interfaces.OnePort;
    equation 
      i = 0;
    end Idle;

* * * * *

[image65] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.Short
================================================

Short cut branch

Information
-----------

::

The model Short is a simple short cut branch. That means the voltage
drop between both pins is zero. This device could be nelected if both
pins are combined to one node. Besides connecting the nodes of both pins
this device has no further function.

::

Extends from Interfaces.OnePort (Component with two electrical pins p
and n and current i from p to n).

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Nam Description
                                              e   
  ------------------------------------------- --- -------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p   Positive pin (potential
                                                  p.v > n.v for positive
                                                  voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n   Negative pin
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Short "Short cut branch"
      extends Interfaces.OnePort;
    equation 
      v = 0;
    end Short;

* * * * *

[image66] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealOpeningSwitch
=============================================================

Ideal electrical opener

Information
-----------

::

The ideal opening switch has a positive pin p and a negative pin n. The
switching behaviour is controlled by the input signal control. If
control is true, pin p is not connected with negative pin n. Otherwise,
pin p is connected with negative pin n. In order to prevent
singularities during switching, the opened switch has a (very low)
conductance Goff and the closed switch has a (very low) resistance Ron.
The limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance Ron of the
closed switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff of the open
switch could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits, where a
description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible. Please note: In
case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the electrical
behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 

  input BooleanInput                          cont true => switch open,
                                              rol  false => p--n connected
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealOpeningSwitch "Ideal electrical opener"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput control 
        "true => switch open, false => p--n connected";
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variable";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if control then 1 else Ron);
      i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if control then Goff else 1);

      LossPower = v*i;
    end IdealOpeningSwitch;

* * * * *

[image67] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealClosingSwitch
=============================================================

Ideal electrical closer

Information
-----------

::

The ideal closing switch has a positive pin p and a negative pin n. The
switching behaviour is controlled by input signal control. If control is
true, pin p is connected with negative pin n. Otherwise, pin p is not
connected with negative pin n. In order to prevent singularities during
switching, the opened switch has a (very low) conductance Goff and the
closed switch has a (very low) resistance Ron. The limiting case is also
allowed, i.e., the resistance Ron of the closed switch could be exactly
zero and the conductance Goff of the open switch could be also exactly
zero. Note, there are circuits, where a description with zero Ron or
zero Goff is not possible. Please note: In case of useHeatPort=true the
temperature dependence of the electrical behavior is not modelled. The
parameters are not temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 

  input BooleanInput                          cont true => p--n connected,
                                              rol  false => switch open
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealClosingSwitch "Ideal electrical closer"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput control 
        "true => p--n connected, false => switch open";
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variable";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if control then Ron else 1);
      i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if control then 1 else Goff);

      LossPower = v*i;
    end IdealClosingSwitch;

* * * * *

[image68] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.ControlledIdealOpeningSwitch
=======================================================================

Controlled ideal electrical opener

Information
-----------

::

The ideal switch has a positive pin p and a negative pin n. The
switching behaviour is controlled by the control pin. If its voltage
exceeds the voltage of the parameter level, pin p is not connected with
negative pin n. Otherwise, pin p is connected with negative pin n. In
order to prevent singularities during switching, the opened switch has a
(very low) conductance Goff and the closed switch has a (very low)
resistance Ron. The limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance
Ron of the closed switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff
of the open switch could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits,
where a description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible. Please
note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the
electrical behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature
dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Voltage                           level   0.5   Switch level [V]

  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Description
  ----------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------
  HeatPort_a                                heat 
                                            Port 

  PositivePin                               p    

  NegativePin                               n    

  Pin                                       cont Control pin: control.v >
                                            rol  level switch open,
                                                 otherwise p--n connected
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ControlledIdealOpeningSwitch 
      "Controlled ideal electrical opener"

      parameter SI.Voltage level=0.5 "Switch level";
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Interfaces.PositivePin p;
      Interfaces.NegativePin n;
      Interfaces.Pin control 
        "Control pin: control.v > level switch open, otherwise p--n connected";
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variable";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      control.i = 0;
      0 = p.i + n.i;
      p.v - n.v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then 1 else Ron);
      p.i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if (control.v > level) then Goff else 1);

      LossPower = (p.v - n.v)*p.i;
    end ControlledIdealOpeningSwitch;

* * * * *

[image69] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.ControlledIdealClosingSwitch
=======================================================================

Controlled ideal electrical closer

Information
-----------

::

The closing ideal switch has a positive pin p and a negative pin n. The
switching behaviour is controlled by the control pin. If its voltage
exceeds the voltage of the parameter level, pin p is connected with
negative pin n. Otherwise, pin p is not connected with negative pin n.
In order to prevent singularities during switching, the opened switch
has a (very low) conductance Goff and the closed switch has a (very low)
resistance Ron. The limiting case is also allowed, i.e., the resistance
Ron of the closed switch could be exactly zero and the conductance Goff
of the open switch could be also exactly zero. Note, there are circuits,
where a description with zero Ron or zero Goff is not possible. Please
note: In case of useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the
electrical behavior is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature
dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Voltage                           level   0.5   Switch level [V]

  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                       Name Description
  ------------------------------------------ ---- -------------------------
  HeatPort_a                                 heat 
                                             Port 

  PositivePin                                p    

  NegativePin                                n    

  Pin                                        cont Control pin: control.v >
                                             rol  level switch closed,
                                                  otherwise switch open
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ControlledIdealClosingSwitch 
      "Controlled ideal electrical closer"

      parameter SI.Voltage level=0.5 "Switch level";
      parameter SI.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter SI.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.PositivePin p;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.NegativePin n;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.Pin control 
        "Control pin: control.v > level switch closed, otherwise switch open";
    protected 
      Real s(final unit="1") "Auxiliary variable";
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
    equation 
      control.i = 0;
      0 = p.i + n.i;
      p.v - n.v = (s*unitCurrent)*(if (control.v > level) then Ron else 1);
      p.i = (s*unitVoltage)*(if (control.v > level) then 1 else Goff);

      LossPower = (p.v - n.v)*p.i;
    end ControlledIdealClosingSwitch;

* * * * *

[image70] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.OpenerWithArc
========================================================

Ideal opening switch with simple arc model

Information
-----------

::

This model is an extension to the IdealOpeningSwitch.

The basic model interupts the current through the switch in an
infinitesimal time span. If an inductive circuit is connected, the
voltage across the swicth is limited only by numerics. In order to give
a better idea for the voltage across the switch, a simple arc model is
added:

When the Boolean input control signals to open the switch, a voltage
across the opened switch is impressed. This voltage starts with V0
(simulating the voltage drop of the arc roots), then rising with slope
dVdt (simulating the rising voltage of an extending arc) until a maximum
voltage Vmax is reached.

    | voltage

  Vmax | +----- | /
         /

  V0 | +
      | | +---+-------- time

This arc voltage tends to lower the current following through the
switch; it depends on the connected circuit, when the arc is quenched.
Once the arc is quenched, i.e., the current flowing through the switch
gets zero, the equation for the off-state is activated i=Goff*v.

When the Boolean input control signals to close the switch again, the
switch is closed immediately, i.e., the equation for the on-state is
activated v=Ron*i.

Please note: In an AC circuit, at least the arc quenches when the next
natural zero-crossing of the current occurs. In a DC circuit, the arc
will not quench if the arc voltage is not sufficient that a
zero-crossing of the current occurs. Please note: In case of
useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the electrical behavior
is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1E-5  Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1E-5  Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Voltage                           V0            Initial arc voltage [V]

  VoltageSlope                      dVdt          Arc voltage slope [V/s]

  Voltage                           Vmax          Max. arc voltage [V]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 

  input BooleanInput                          cont false => p--n connected,
                                              rol  true => switch open
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model OpenerWithArc "Ideal opening switch with simple arc model"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron= 1E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff=1E-5 "Opened switch conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage V0(start=30) "Initial arc voltage";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.VoltageSlope dVdt(start=10E3) "Arc voltage slope";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vmax(start=60) "Max. arc voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput control 
        "false => p--n connected, true => switch open";

    protected 
      Boolean off=control;
      Boolean on=not off;
      discrete Modelica.SIunits.Time tSwitch(start=-Modelica.Constants.inf);
      Boolean quenched(start=true);
    equation 
      when edge(off) then
        tSwitch=time;
      end when;
      quenched=off and (abs(i)<=abs(v)*Goff or pre(quenched));
      if on then
        v=Ron*i;
      else
        if quenched then
          i=Goff*v;
        else
          v=min(Vmax, V0 + dVdt*(time - tSwitch))*sign(i);
        end if;
      end if;
     LossPower = v*i;
    end OpenerWithArc;

* * * * *

[image71] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.CloserWithArc
========================================================

Ideal closing switch with simple arc model

Information
-----------

::

This model is an extension to the IdealClosingSwitch.

The basic model interupts the current through the switch in an
infinitesimal time span. If an inductive circuit is connected, the
voltage across the swicth is limited only by numerics. In order to give
a better idea for the voltage across the switch, a simple arc model is
added:

When the Boolean input control signals to open the switch, a voltage
across the opened switch is impressed. This voltage starts with V0
(simulating the voltage drop of the arc roots), then rising with slope
dVdt (simulating the rising voltage of an extending arc) until a maximum
voltage Vmax is reached.

    | voltage

  Vmax | +----- | /
         /

  V0 | +
      | | +---+-------- time

This arc voltage tends to lower the current following through the
switch; it depends on the connected circuit, when the arc is quenched.
Once the arc is quenched, i.e., the current flowing through the switch
gets zero, the equation for the off-state is activated i=Goff*v.

When the Boolean input control signals to close the switch again, the
switch is closed immediately, i.e., the equation for the on-state is
activated v=Ron*i.

Please note: In an AC circuit, at least the arc quenches when the next
natural zero-crossing of the current occurs. In a DC circuit, the arc
will not quench if the arc voltage is not sufficient that a
zero-crossing of the current occurs. Please note: In case of
useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the electrical behavior
is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort (Component
with two electrical pins p and n and current i from p to n),
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort (Partial model
to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe the power loss
via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Resistance                        Ron     1E-5  Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1E-5  Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Voltage                           V0            Initial arc voltage [V]

  VoltageSlope                      dVdt          Arc voltage slope [V/s]

  Voltage                           Vmax          Max. arc voltage [V]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------
  PositivePin                                 p    Positive pin (potential
                                                   p.v > n.v for positive
                                                   voltage drop v)

  NegativePin                                 n    Negative pin

  HeatPort_a                                  heat 
                                              Port 

  input BooleanInput                          cont true => p--n connected,
                                              rol  false => switch open
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model CloserWithArc "Ideal closing switch with simple arc model"
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.OnePort;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron= 1E-5 "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff=1E-5 "Opened switch conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage V0(start=30) "Initial arc voltage";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.VoltageSlope dVdt(start=10E3) "Arc voltage slope";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vmax(start=60) "Max. arc voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput control 
        "true => p--n connected, false => switch open";

    protected 
      Boolean on=control;
      Boolean off=not on;
      discrete Modelica.SIunits.Time tSwitch(start=-Modelica.Constants.inf);
      Boolean quenched(start=true);
    equation 
      when edge(off) then
        tSwitch=time;
      end when;
      quenched=off and (abs(i)<=abs(v)*Goff or pre(quenched));
      if on then
        v=Ron*i;
      else
        if quenched then
          i=Goff*v;
        else
          v=min(Vmax, V0 + dVdt*(time - tSwitch))*sign(i);
        end if;
      end if;
    LossPower = v*i;
    end CloserWithArc;

* * * * *

[image72] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.ControlledOpenerWithArc
==================================================================

Controlled ideal electrical opener with simple arc model

Information
-----------

::

This model is an extension to the IdealOpeningSwitch.

The basic model interupts the current through the switch in an
infinitesimal time span. If an inductive circuit is connected, the
voltage across the swicth is limited only by numerics. In order to give
a better idea for the voltage across the switch, a simple arc model is
added:

When the control pin voltage control.v signals to open the switch, a
voltage across the opened switch is impressed. This voltage starts with
V0 (simulating the voltage drop of the arc roots), then rising with
slope dVdt (simulating the rising voltage of an extending arc) until a
maximum voltage Vmax is reached.

    | voltage

  Vmax | +----- | /
         /

  V0 | +
      | | +---+-------- time

This arc voltage tends to lower the current following through the
switch; it depends on the connected circuit, when the arc is quenched.
Once the arc is quenched, i.e., the current flowing through the switch
gets zero, the equation for the off-state is activated i=Goff*v.

When the control pin control.v signals to close the switch again, the
switch is closed immediately, i.e., the equation for the on-state is
activated v=Ron*i.

Please note: In an AC circuit, at least the arc quenches when the next
natural zero-crossing of the current occurs. In a DC circuit, the arc
will not quench if the arc voltage is not sufficient that a
zero-crossing of the current occurs. Please note: In case of
useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the electrical behavior
is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Voltage                           level   0.5   Switch level [V]

  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Voltage                           V0            Initial arc voltage [V]

  VoltageSlope                      dVdt          Arc voltage slope [V/s]

  Voltage                           Vmax          Max. arc voltage [V]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                      Name Description
  ----------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------
  HeatPort_a                                heat 
                                            Port 

  PositivePin                               p    

  NegativePin                               n    

  Pin                                       cont Control pin: control.v >
                                            rol  level switch open,
                                                 otherwise p--n connected
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ControlledOpenerWithArc 
      "Controlled ideal electrical opener with simple arc model"

      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage level=0.5 "Switch level";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron(final min=0)=1.E-5 
        "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff(final min=0)=1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage V0(start=30) "Initial arc voltage";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.VoltageSlope dVdt(start=10E3) "Arc voltage slope";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vmax(start=60) "Max. arc voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.PositivePin p;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.NegativePin n;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.Pin control 
        "Control pin: control.v > level switch open, otherwise p--n connected";
      Modelica.SIunits.Current i;
      Modelica.SIunits.Voltage v;
    protected 
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
      Boolean off=(control.v > level);
      Boolean on=not off;
      discrete Modelica.SIunits.Time tSwitch(start=-Modelica.Constants.inf);
      Boolean quenched(start=true);
    equation 
      control.i = 0;
      0 = p.i + n.i;
      i = p.i;
      p.v - n.v = v;

      when edge(off) then
        tSwitch=time;
      end when;
      quenched=off and (abs(i)<=abs(v)*Goff or pre(quenched));
      if on then
        v=Ron*i;
      else
        if quenched then
          i=Goff*v;
        else
          v=min(Vmax, V0 + dVdt*(time - tSwitch))*sign(i);
        end if;
      end if;
     LossPower = v*i;
    end ControlledOpenerWithArc;

* * * * *

[image73] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.ControlledCloserWithArc
==================================================================

Controlled ideal electrical closer with simple arc model

Information
-----------

::

This model is an extension to the IdealClosingSwitch.

The basic model interupts the current through the switch in an
infinitesimal time span. If an inductive circuit is connected, the
voltage across the swicth is limited only by numerics. In order to give
a better idea for the voltage across the switch, a simple arc model is
added:

When the control pin voltage control.v signals to open the switch, a
voltage across the opened switch is impressed. This voltage starts with
V0 (simulating the voltage drop of the arc roots), then rising with
slope dVdt (simulating the rising voltage of an extending arc) until a
maximum voltage Vmax is reached.

    | voltage

  Vmax | +----- | /
         /

  V0 | +
      | | +---+-------- time

This arc voltage tends to lower the current following through the
switch; it depends on the connected circuit, when the arc is quenched.
Once the arc is quenched, i.e., the current flowing through the switch
gets zero, the equation for the off-state is activated i=Goff*v.

When the control pin control.v signals to close the switch again, the
switch is closed immediately, i.e., the equation for the on-state is
activated v=Ron*i.

Please note: In an AC circuit, at least the arc quenches when the next
natural zero-crossing of the current occurs. In a DC circuit, the arc
will not quench if the arc voltage is not sufficient that a
zero-crossing of the current occurs. Please note: In case of
useHeatPort=true the temperature dependence of the electrical behavior
is not modelled. The parameters are not temperature dependent.

::

Extends from Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort
(Partial model to include a conditional HeatPort in order to describe
the power loss via a thermal network).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                              Name    Defau Description
                                            lt    
  --------------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------
  Voltage                           level   0.5   Switch level [V]

  Resistance                        Ron     1.E-5 Closed switch resistance
                                                  [Ohm]

  Conductance                       Goff    1.E-5 Opened switch conductance
                                                  [S]

  Voltage                           V0            Initial arc voltage [V]

  VoltageSlope                      dVdt          Arc voltage slope [V/s]

  Voltage                           Vmax          Max. arc voltage [V]

  Boolean                           useHeat false =true, if HeatPort is
                                    Port          enabled

  Temperature                       T       293.1 Fixed device temperature
                                            5     if useHeatPort = false
                                                  [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                       Name Description
  ------------------------------------------ ---- -------------------------
  HeatPort_a                                 heat 
                                             Port 

  PositivePin                                p    

  NegativePin                                n    

  Pin                                        cont Control pin: control.v >
                                             rol  level switch closed,
                                                  otherwise switch open
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ControlledCloserWithArc 
      "Controlled ideal electrical closer with simple arc model"

      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage level=0.5 "Switch level";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron(final min=0)=1.E-5 
        "Closed switch resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff(final min=0)=1.E-5 
        "Opened switch conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage V0(start=30) "Initial arc voltage";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.VoltageSlope dVdt(start=10E3) "Arc voltage slope";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vmax(start=60) "Max. arc voltage";
      extends Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.ConditionalHeatPort(                    final T=293.15);
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.PositivePin p;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.NegativePin n;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.Pin control 
        "Control pin: control.v > level switch closed, otherwise switch open";
      Modelica.SIunits.Current i;
      Modelica.SIunits.Voltage v;
    protected 
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Voltage unitVoltage= 1;
      constant Modelica.SIunits.Current unitCurrent= 1;
      Boolean off=(control.v < level);
      Boolean on=not off;
      discrete Modelica.SIunits.Time tSwitch(start=-Modelica.Constants.inf);
      Boolean quenched(start=true);
    equation 
      control.i = 0;
      0 = p.i + n.i;
      i = p.i;
      p.v - n.v = v;

      when edge(off) then
        tSwitch=time;
      end when;
      quenched=off and (abs(i)<=abs(v)*Goff or pre(quenched));
      if on then
        v=Ron*i;
      else
        if quenched then
          i=Goff*v;
        else
          v=min(Vmax, V0 + dVdt*(time - tSwitch))*sign(i);
        end if;
      end if;
     LossPower = v*i;
    end ControlledCloserWithArc;

* * * * *

[image74] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealTriac
=====================================================

Ideal triac, based on ideal thyristors

Information
-----------

::

This is an ideal triac model based on an ideal thyristor model.

Two ideal thyristors (Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealThyristor)
are contrarily connected in parallel and additionally eliminated
interference with a resistor (Rdis=100) and a capacitor (Cdis=0.005),
which are connected in series.

The electrical component triac (TRIode Alternating Current switch) is,
due to whose complex structure, a multifunctional applicable
construction unit. The application area of this element is the
manipulation of alternating current signals in frequency, voltage and/or
current and also general blocking or filtering. However, compared to a
thyristor the triac is only applied for substantial lesser currents,
what is justified by whose sensitive structure. Generally one is limited
to maximal voltages from 800 volt and currents from 40 ampere. For
comparison maximal voltages of a thyristor are 8.000 volt and currents
5.000 ampere.

Structure and functionality:

Functionality of a triac is in principle the same like functionality of
a thyristor, even connecting through of current starting from a certain
voltage (knee voltage), but only if the current at anode and cathode is
caused by a impulse current in the gate electrode. In case of the triac
this process is also possible with reverse polarity, wherefore it is
possible to control both half-waves of alternating currents. By means of
gate electrodes, which are connected in a triac and why only one gate
electrode is necessary, the point of time can be determined, at which
the triac lets the alternating current signal pass. Thereby it is
possible to affect the phase, at which the alternating current signal is
cut. One speaks also of phase-angle control. Also depending on doping
and specific structure knee voltage and maximal current carrying are
alterable.

Characteristics:

-   high switching times between on-state and off state up to activation
    of the reverse current phase
-   gate electrode are activated with (positive) impulse (called
    thyristor/triac firing), after firing thyristor path holds itself in
    state of low resistance or conductive state up to holding voltage is
    fallen below, it follows change to off state and next thyristor path
    can fire
-   in particular by switching of inductive components triacs generate
    harmonic waves, whose frequency ranges into broadcast sector and
    could there cause transmission disturbances; therefore triacs have
    to eliminate interference by inductors and capacitors

Applications:

-   any stepless exposure (dimmer)
-   engine speed adjustment of electric motors
-   further applications of phase-angle control (power electronics)
-   power packs

As an additional information: this model is based on the
Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealThyristor.

::

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                               Name Defau Description
                                          lt    
  ---------------------------------- ---- ----- ---------------------------
  Resistance                         Ron  1.e-5 Closed triac resistance
                                                [Ohm]

  Conductance                        Goff 1.e-5 Opened triac conductance
                                                [S]

  Voltage                            Vkne 0.8   Threshold voltage for
                                     e          positive and negative phase
                                                [V]

  Resistance                         Rdis 100   Resistance of disturbance
                                                elimination [Ohm]

  Capacitance                        Cdis 0.005 Capacity of disturbance
                                                elimination [F]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                       Name  Descript
                                                                   ion
  ---------------------------------------------------------- ----- --------
  input BooleanInput                                         fire1 Gate

  NegativePin                                                n     Cathode

  PositivePin                                                p     Anode
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model IdealTriac "Ideal triac, based on ideal thyristors"

      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Ron(final min=0) = 1.e-5 
        "Closed triac resistance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Conductance Goff(final min=0) = 1.e-5 
        "Opened triac conductance";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vknee(final min=0, start=0) = 0.8 
        "Threshold voltage for positive and negative phase";

      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Rdis = 100 
        "Resistance of disturbance elimination";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Capacitance Cdis = 0.005 
        "Capacity of disturbance elimination";

      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealThyristor idealThyristor(
        Ron=Ron,
        Goff=Goff,
        Vknee=Vknee);
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.IdealThyristor idealThyristor1(
        Ron=Ron,
        Goff=Goff,
        Vknee=Vknee);
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Basic.Resistor resistor(R=Rdis);
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Basic.Capacitor capacitor(C=Cdis);
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput fire1 "Gate";
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.NegativePin n "Cathode";
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.PositivePin p "Anode";
    equation 

      connect(idealThyristor.n, capacitor.n);
      connect(capacitor.n, idealThyristor1.p);
      connect(idealThyristor1.n, resistor.p);
      connect(resistor.p, idealThyristor.p);
      connect(resistor.n, capacitor.p);
      connect(idealThyristor1.fire, fire1);
      connect(idealThyristor.fire, fire1);
      connect(n, idealThyristor.p);
      connect(idealThyristor1.p, p);
    end IdealTriac;

* * * * *

[image75] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.AD_Converter
=======================================================

Simple n-bit analog to digital converter

Information
-----------

::

Simple analog to digital converter with a variable resolution of n bits.
It converts the input voltage ppin.v-npin.v to an n-vector of type Logic
(9-valued logic according to IEEE 1164 STD_ULOGIC). The input resistance
between positive and negative pin is determined by Rin. Further effects
(like input capacities) have to be modeled outside the converter, since
this should be a general model.

The input singnal range (VRefLo,VRefHi) is divided into 2^n-1 equally
spaced stages of lenght Vlsb:=(VRefHi-VRefLo)/(2^n-1). The output signal
is the binary code of k as long as the input voltage takes values in the
k-th stage, namely in the range from Vlsb*(k-0.5) to m*(k+0.5). This is
called mid-tread operation. Additionally the output can only change its
value if the trigger signal trig of type Logic changes to '1' (forced or
weak).

The output vector is a 'little-endian'. i.e., that the first bit y[1] is
the least significant one (LSB).

This is an abstract model of an ADC. Therefore, it can not cover the
dynamic behaviour of the converter. Hence the output will change
instantaniously when the trigger signal rises.

::

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                 Name   Defaul Description
                                              t      
  ------------------------------------ ------ ------ -----------------------
  Integer                              N             Resolution in bits -
                                                     output signal width

  Voltage                              VRefHi        High reference voltage
                                       gh            [V]

  Voltage                              VRefLo        Low reference voltage
                                       w             [V]

  Resistance                           Rin           Input resistance [Ohm]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Description
                                                        e   
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---------------
  PositivePin                                           p   Positive
                                                            electrical pin
                                                            (input)

  NegativePin                                           n   Negative
                                                            electrical pin
                                                            (input)

  output DigitalOutput                                  y[N Digital output
                                                        ]   

  input DigitalInput                                    tri Trigger input
                                                        g   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model AD_Converter "Simple n-bit analog to digital converter"
      import L = Modelica.Electrical.Digital.Interfaces.Logic;
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.PositivePin p 
        "Positive electrical pin (input)";
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.NegativePin n 
        "Negative electrical pin (input)";
      Modelica.Electrical.Digital.Interfaces.DigitalOutput y[N] "Digital output";
        Modelica.Electrical.Digital.Interfaces.DigitalInput trig "Trigger input";
      parameter Integer N(final min=1, start = 8) 
        "Resolution in bits - output signal width";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage VRefHigh(start = 10) 
        "High reference voltage";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage VRefLow(final max=VRefHigh, start = 0) 
        "Low reference voltage";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Resistance Rin(start = 10^6) "Input resistance";
      Integer z;
      Real u;

    initial equation 
     for i in 1:N loop
      y[i]=L.'X';
     end for;

    algorithm 
      when (trig==4 or trig==8) then
        z:=if u>VRefLow then integer((u-VRefLow)/(VRefHigh-VRefLow)*(2^N - 1) + 0.5) else 0;
        for i in 1:N loop
          y[i] :=if mod(z, 2) > 0 then L.'1' else L.'0';
          z:=div(z, 2);
        end for;
      end when;
    equation 
          p.v - n.v = u;
          p.i*Rin = u;
          p.i + n.i = 0;
    end AD_Converter;

* * * * *

[image76] Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Ideal.DA_Converter
=======================================================

Simple digital to analog converter

Information
-----------

::

Simple digital to analog converter with a variable input signal width of
N bits. The input signal is an N-vector of type Logic (9-valued logic
according to IEEE 1164 STD_ULOGIC). The output voltage of value y is
generated by an ideal voltage source. The output can only change if the
trigger signal trig of type Logic changes to ';1'; (forced or weak). In
this case, the output voltage is calculated in the following way:

    N

  y = SUM ( x[i]2^(i-1) )Vref/(2^N-1),
      i=1

where x[i], i=1,...,N is 1 or 0. and Vref is the reference value.
Therefore, the first bit in the input vector x[1] is the least
significant one (LSB) and x[N] is the most significant bit (MSB).

This is an abstract model of a DAC. Hence, it can not cover the dynamic
behaviour of the converter. Therefore the output will change
instantaniously when the trigger signal rises.

::

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name  Default Description
  -------------------------------------- ----- ------- ---------------------
  Integer                                N             Resolution - input
                                                       signal width

  Voltage                                Vref          Reference voltage [V]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Nam Description
                                                       e   
  ---------------------------------------------------- --- ---------------
  input DigitalInput                                   tri Trigger input
                                                       g   

  input DigitalInput                                   x[N Digital input
                                                       ]   

  PositivePin                                          p   Positive
                                                           electrical pin
                                                           (output)

  NegativePin                                          n   Negative
                                                           electrical pin
                                                           (output)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model DA_Converter "Simple digital to analog converter"
      import L = Modelica.Electrical.Digital.Interfaces.Logic;
      Modelica.Electrical.Digital.Interfaces.DigitalInput trig "Trigger input";
      Modelica.Electrical.Digital.Interfaces.DigitalInput x[N] "Digital input";
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.PositivePin p 
        "Positive electrical pin (output)";
      Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Interfaces.NegativePin n 
        "Negative electrical pin (output)";

      Modelica.SIunits.Voltage vout;
      Real y(start=0);
      parameter Integer N(final min=1, start = 8) "Resolution - input signal width";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Voltage Vref(start = 10) "Reference voltage";

    algorithm 
       when trig==4 or trig==8 then
         y:=0;
         for i in 1:N loop
           y := if ( x[i] == 4 or x[i] == 8) then  y + 2^(i-1) else y;
         end for;
         vout := y*Vref/(2^N - 1);
       end when;

    equation 
      p.v - n.v = vout;
      p.i + n.i = 0;

    end DA_Converter;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:28:09 2010.
