Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources



Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources
=====================================

Sources to drive 1D rotational mechanical components

Information
-----------

::

This package contains ideal sources to drive 1D mechanical rotational
drive trains.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.SourcesPackage (Icon for packages containing
sources).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                               Description
  -------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  [image11] Position                                 Forced movement of a
                                                     flange according to a
                                                     reference angle
                                                     signal

  [image12] Speed                                    Forced movement of a
                                                     flange according to a
                                                     reference angular
                                                     velocity signal

  [image13] Accelerate                               Forced movement of a
                                                     flange according to
                                                     an acceleration
                                                     signal

  [image14] Move                                     Forced movement of a
                                                     flange according to
                                                     an angle, speed and
                                                     angular acceleration
                                                     signal

  [image15] Torque                                   Input signal acting
                                                     as external torque on
                                                     a flange

  [image16] Torque2                                  Input signal acting
                                                     as torque on two
                                                     flanges

  [image17] LinearSpeedDependentTorque               Linear dependency of
                                                     torque versus speed

  [image18] QuadraticSpeedDependentTorque            Quadratic dependency
                                                     of torque versus
                                                     speed

  [image19] ConstantTorque                           Constant torque, not
                                                     dependent on speed

  [image20] ConstantSpeed                            Constant speed, not
                                                     dependent on torque

  [image21] TorqueStep                               Constant torque, not
                                                     dependent on speed
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image22] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Position
========================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to a reference angle signal

Information
-----------

::

The input signal phi_ref defines the reference angle in [rad]. Flange
flange is forced to move according to this reference motion relative to
flange support. According to parameter exact (default = false), this is
done in the following way:

1.  exact=true
        The reference angle is treated exactly. This is only possible,

    if the input signal is defined by an analytical function which can
    be differentiated at least twice. If this prerequisite is fulfilled,
    the Modelica translator will differentiate the input signal twice in
    order to compute the reference acceleration of the flange.
2.  exact=false
        The reference angle is filtered and the second derivative of the

    filtered curve is used to compute the reference acceleration of the
    flange. This second derivative is not computed by numerical
    differentiation but by an appropriate realization of the filter. For
    filtering, a second order Bessel filter is used. The critical
    frequency (also called cut-off frequency) of the filter is defined
    via parameter f_crit in [Hz]. This value should be selected in such
    a way that it is higher as the essential low frequencies in the
    signal.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                         Name   Defau Description
                                      lt    
  ---------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------------------
  Boolean                      useSup false = true, if support flange
                               port         enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Boolean                      exact  false true/false exact
                                            treatment/filtering the input
                                            signal

  Frequency                    f_crit 50    if exact=false, critical
                                            frequency of filter to filter
                                            input signal [Hz]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name Description
  ---------------------------------------- ---- --------------------------
  Flange_b                                 flan Flange of shaft
                                           ge   

  Support                                  supp Support/housing of
                                           ort  component

  input RealInput                          phi_ Reference angle of flange
                                           ref  with respect to support as
                                                input signal [rad]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Position 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to a reference angle signal"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      parameter Boolean exact=false 
        "true/false exact treatment/filtering the input signal";
      parameter SI.Frequency f_crit=50 
        "if exact=false, critical frequency of filter to filter input signal";
      SI.Angle phi(stateSelect=if exact then StateSelect.default else StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Rotation angle of flange with respect to support";
      SI.AngularVelocity w(start=0,stateSelect=if exact then StateSelect.default else StateSelect.prefer) 
        "If exact=false, Angular velocity of flange with respect to support else dummy";
      SI.AngularAcceleration a(start=0) 
        "If exact=false, Angular acceleration of flange with respect to support else dummy";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput phi_ref(final quantity="Angle", final unit="rad", displayUnit="deg") 
        "Reference angle of flange with respect to support as input signal";

    protected 
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularFrequency w_crit=2*Modelica.Constants.pi*f_crit 
        "Critical frequency";
      constant Real af=1.3617 "s coefficient of Bessel filter";
      constant Real bf=0.6180 "s*s coefficient of Bessel filter";
    initial equation 
      if not exact then
        phi = phi_ref;
      end if;
    equation 
      phi = flange.phi - phi_support;
      if exact then
        phi = phi_ref;
        w = 0;
        a = 0;
      else
        // Filter: a = phi_ref*s^2/(1 + (af/w_crit)*s + (bf/w_crit^2)*s^2)
        w = der(phi);
        a = der(w);
        a = ((phi_ref - phi)*w_crit - af*w)*(w_crit/bf);
      end if;
    end Position;

* * * * *

[image23] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Speed
=====================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to a reference angular velocity
signal

Information
-----------

::

The input signal w_ref defines the reference speed in [rad/s]. Flange
flange is forced to move relative to flange support according to this
reference motion. According to parameter exact (default = false), this
is done in the following way:

1.  exact=true
        The reference speed is treated exactly. This is only possible,

    if the input signal is defined by an analytical function which can
    be differentiated at least once. If this prerequisite is fulfilled,
    the Modelica translator will differentiate the input signal once in
    order to compute the reference acceleration of the flange.
2.  exact=false
        The reference angle is filtered and the second derivative of the

    filtered curve is used to compute the reference acceleration of the
    flange. This second derivative is not computed by numerical
    differentiation but by an appropriate realization of the filter. For
    filtering, a first order filter is used. The critical frequency
    (also called cut-off frequency) of the filter is defined via
    parameter f_crit in [Hz]. This value should be selected in such a
    way that it is higher as the essential low frequencies in the
    signal.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                         Name   Defau Description
                                      lt    
  ---------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------------------
  Boolean                      useSup false = true, if support flange
                               port         enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Boolean                      exact  false true/false exact
                                            treatment/filtering the input
                                            signal

  Frequency                    f_crit 50    if exact=false, critical
                                            frequency of filter to filter
                                            input signal [Hz]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name Description
  --------------------------------------- ---- ----------------------------
  Flange_b                                flan Flange of shaft
                                          ge   

  Support                                 supp Support/housing of component
                                          ort  

  input RealInput                         w_re Reference angular velocity
                                          f    of flange with respect to
                                               support as input signal
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Speed 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to a reference angular velocity signal"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      parameter Boolean exact=false 
        "true/false exact treatment/filtering the input signal";
      parameter SI.Frequency f_crit=50 
        "if exact=false, critical frequency of filter to filter input signal";
      SI.Angle phi(start=0, fixed=true, stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Rotation angle of flange with respect to support";
      SI.AngularVelocity w(stateSelect=if exact then StateSelect.default else StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Angular velocity of flange with respect to support";
      SI.AngularAcceleration a 
        "If exact=false, angular acceleration of flange with respect to support else dummy";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput w_ref 
        "Reference angular velocity of flange with respect to support as input signal";

    protected 
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularFrequency w_crit=2*Modelica.Constants.pi*f_crit 
        "Critical frequency";
    initial equation 
      if not exact then
        w = w_ref;
      end if;
    equation 
      phi = flange.phi - phi_support;
      w = der(phi);
      if exact then
        w = w_ref;
        a = 0;
      else
        // Filter: a = w_ref/(1 + (1/w_crit)*s)
        a = der(w);
        a = (w_ref - w)*w_crit;
      end if;
    end Speed;

* * * * *

[image24] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Accelerate
==========================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to an acceleration signal

Information
-----------

::

The input signal a defines an angular acceleration in [rad/s2]. Flange
flange is forced to move relative to flange support with this
acceleration. The angular velocity w and the rotation angle phi of the
flange are automatically determined by integration of the acceleration.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                    Name Description
  --------------------------------------- ---- ----------------------------
  Flange_b                                flan Flange of shaft
                                          ge   

  Support                                 supp Support/housing of component
                                          ort  

  input RealInput                         a_re Absolute angular
                                          f    acceleration of flange with
                                               respect to support as input
                                               signal
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Accelerate 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to an acceleration signal"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      SI.Angle phi(start=0, fixed=true, stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Rotation angle of flange with respect to support";
      SI.AngularVelocity w(start=0, fixed=true, stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer) 
        "Angular velocity of flange with respect to support";
      SI.AngularAcceleration a 
        "Angular acceleration of flange with respect to support";

      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput a_ref 
        "Absolute angular acceleration of flange with respect to support as input signal";

    equation 
      phi = flange.phi - phi_support;
      w = der(phi);
      a = der(w);
      a = a_ref;
    end Accelerate;

* * * * *

[image25] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Move
====================================================

Forced movement of a flange according to an angle, speed and angular
acceleration signal

Information
-----------

::

Flange flange is forced to move relative to flange support with a
predefined motion according to the input signals:

    u[1]: angle of flange
    u[2]: angular velocity of flange
    u[3]: angular acceleration of flange

The user has to guarantee that the input signals are consistent to each
other, i.e., that u[2] is the derivative of u[1] and that u[3] is the
derivative of u[2]. There are, however, also applications where by
purpose these conditions do not hold. For example, if only the position
dependent terms of a mechanical system shall be calculated, one may
provide angle = angle(t) and set the angular velocity and the angular
acceleration to zero.

The input signals can be provided from one of the signal generator
blocks of the block library Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                Nam Description
                                      e   
  ----------------------------------- --- --------------------------------
  Flange_b                            fla Flange of shaft
                                      nge 

  Support                             sup Support/housing of component
                                      por 
                                      t   

  input RealInput                     u[3 Angle, angular velocity and
                                      ]   angular acceleration of flange
                                          with respect to support as input
                                          signals
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Move 
      "Forced movement of a flange according to an angle, speed and angular acceleration signal"
      import SI = Modelica.SIunits;
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;

      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi "Rotation angle of flange with respect to support";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput u[3] 
        "Angle, angular velocity and angular acceleration of flange with respect to support as input signals";

    protected 
      function position
      annotation(derivative=position_der);
         input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
         input Real dummy 
          "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
         output Real q;
      algorithm 
        q :=q_qd_qdd[1];
      end position;

      function position_der
      annotation(derivative=position_der2);
         input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
         input Real dummy 
          "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
         input Real dummy_der;
         output Real qd;
      algorithm 
        qd :=q_qd_qdd[2];
      end position_der;

      function position_der2
         input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
         input Real dummy 
          "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
         input Real dummy_der;
         input Real dummy_der2;
         output Real qdd;
      algorithm 
        qdd :=q_qd_qdd[3];
      end position_der2;
    equation 
      phi = flange.phi - phi_support;
      phi = position(u,time);
    end Move;

* * * * *

[image26] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Torque
======================================================

Input signal acting as external torque on a flange

Information
-----------

::

The input signal tau defines an external torque in [Nm] which acts (with
negative sign) at a flange connector, i.e., the component connected to
this flange is driven by torque tau.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                          Name Description
  --------------------------------------------- ---- ----------------------
  Flange_b                                      flan Flange of shaft
                                                ge   

  Support                                       supp Support/housing of
                                                ort  component

  input RealInput                               tau  Accelerating torque
                                                     acting at flange (=
                                                     -flange.tau)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Torque "Input signal acting as external torque on a flange"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput tau 
        "Accelerating torque acting at flange (= -flange.tau)";

    equation 
      flange.tau = -tau;
    end Torque;

* * * * *

[image27] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Torque2
=======================================================

Input signal acting as torque on two flanges

Information
-----------

::

The input signal tau defines an external torque in [Nm] which acts at
both flange connectors, i.e., the components connected to these flanges
are driven by torque tau.

The input signal can be provided from one of the signal generator blocks
of Modelica.Blocks.Sources.

::

Extends from Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTwoFlanges (Partial model for
a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges).

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name Description
  ---------------------------------------- ---- --------------------------
  Flange_a                                 flan Flange of left shaft
                                           ge_a 

  Flange_b                                 flan Flange of right shaft
                                           ge_b 

  input RealInput                          tau  Torque driving the two
                                                flanges (a positive value
                                                accelerates the flange)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model Torque2 "Input signal acting as torque on two flanges"
      extends Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTwoFlanges;

      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput tau 
        "Torque driving the two flanges (a positive value accelerates the flange)";

    equation 
      flange_a.tau =  tau;
      flange_b.tau = -tau;
    end Torque2;

* * * * *

[image28] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.LinearSpeedDependentTorque
==========================================================================

Linear dependency of torque versus speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of torque, linearly dependent on angular velocity of flange.
    Parameter TorqueDirection chooses whether direction of torque is the

same in both directions of rotation or not.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque
(Partial model of a torque acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                            Name    Defa Description
                                          ult  
  ------------------------------- ------- ---- ---------------------------
  Boolean                         useSupp fals = true, if support flange
                                  ort     e    enabled, otherwise
                                               implicitly grounded

  Torque                          tau_nom      Nominal torque (if
                                  inal         negative, torque is acting
                                               as load) [N.m]

  Boolean                         TorqueD true Same direction of torque in
                                  irectio      both directions of rotation
                                  n            

  AngularVelocity                 w_nomin      Nominal speed [rad/s]
                                  al           
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model LinearSpeedDependentTorque 
      "Linear dependency of torque versus speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau_nominal 
        "Nominal torque (if negative, torque is acting as load)";
      parameter Boolean TorqueDirection=true 
        "Same direction of torque in both directions of rotation";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w_nominal(min=Modelica.Constants.eps) 
        "Nominal speed";
      Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w 
        "Angular velocity of flange with respect to support (= der(phi))";
      Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau 
        "Accelerating torque acting at flange (= -flange.tau)";
    equation 
      w = der(phi);
      tau = -flange.tau;
      if TorqueDirection then
        tau = tau_nominal*abs(w/w_nominal);
      else
        tau = tau_nominal*(w/w_nominal);
      end if;
    end LinearSpeedDependentTorque;

* * * * *

[image29] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.QuadraticSpeedDependentTorque
=============================================================================

Quadratic dependency of torque versus speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of torque, quadratic dependent on angular velocity of flange.
    Parameter TorqueDirection chooses whether direction of torque is the

same in both directions of rotation or not.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque
(Partial model of a torque acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                            Name    Defa Description
                                          ult  
  ------------------------------- ------- ---- ---------------------------
  Boolean                         useSupp fals = true, if support flange
                                  ort     e    enabled, otherwise
                                               implicitly grounded

  Torque                          tau_nom      Nominal torque (if
                                  inal         negative, torque is acting
                                               as load) [N.m]

  Boolean                         TorqueD true Same direction of torque in
                                  irectio      both directions of rotation
                                  n            

  AngularVelocity                 w_nomin      Nominal speed [rad/s]
                                  al           
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model QuadraticSpeedDependentTorque 
      "Quadratic dependency of torque versus speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau_nominal 
        "Nominal torque (if negative, torque is acting as load)";
      parameter Boolean TorqueDirection=true 
        "Same direction of torque in both directions of rotation";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w_nominal(min=Modelica.Constants.eps) 
        "Nominal speed";
      Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w 
        "Angular velocity of flange with respect to support (= der(phi))";
      Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau 
        "Accelerating torque acting at flange (= -flange.tau)";
    equation 
      w = der(phi);
      tau = -flange.tau;
      if TorqueDirection then
        tau = tau_nominal*(w/w_nominal)^2;
      else
        tau = tau_nominal*smooth(1,if w >= 0 then (w/w_nominal)^2 else -(w/w_nominal)^2);
      end if;
    end QuadraticSpeedDependentTorque;

* * * * *

[image30] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.ConstantTorque
==============================================================

Constant torque, not dependent on speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of constant torque, not dependent on angular velocity of flange.
    Positive torque acts accelerating.

::

Extends from Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque (Partial model of a
torque acting at the flange (accelerates the flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                        Name     Defau Description
                                       lt    
  --------------------------- -------- ----- ------------------------------
  Boolean                     useSuppo false = true, if support flange
                              rt             enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                             grounded

  Torque                      tau_cons       Constant torque (if negative,
                              tant           torque is acting as load)
                                             [N.m]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ConstantTorque "Constant torque, not dependent on speed"
      extends Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau_constant 
        "Constant torque (if negative, torque is acting as load)";
      Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau 
        "Accelerating torque acting at flange (= -flange.tau)";
    equation 
      tau = -flange.tau;
      tau = tau_constant;
    end ConstantTorque;

* * * * *

[image31] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.ConstantSpeed
=============================================================

Constant speed, not dependent on torque

Information
-----------

::

Model of fixed angular verlocity of flange, not dependent on torque.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque
(Partial model of a torque acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                             Name   Defa Description
                                          ult  
  -------------------------------- ------ ---- ----------------------------
  Boolean                          useSup fals = true, if support flange
                                   port   e    enabled, otherwise
                                               implicitly grounded

  AngularVelocity                  w_fixe      Fixed speed [rad/s]
                                   d           
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ConstantSpeed "Constant speed, not dependent on torque"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque;
      Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w 
        "Angular velocity of flange with respect to support (= der(phi))";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w_fixed "Fixed speed";
    equation 
      w = der(phi);
      w = w_fixed;
    end ConstantSpeed;

* * * * *

[image32] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.TorqueStep
==========================================================

Constant torque, not dependent on speed

Information
-----------

::

Model of a torque step at time .
    Positive torque acts accelerating.

::

Extends from Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque
(Partial model of a torque acting at the flange (accelerates the
flange)).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                        Name    Defau Description
                                      lt    
  --------------------------- ------- ----- -------------------------------
  Boolean                     useSupp false = true, if support flange
                              ort           enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  Torque                      stepTor       Height of torque step (if
                              que           negative, torque is acting as
                                            load) [N.m]

  Torque                      offsetT       Offset of torque [N.m]
                              orque         

  Time                        startTi 0     Torque = offset for time <
                              me            startTime [s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model TorqueStep "Constant torque, not dependent on speed"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque;
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Torque stepTorque(start=1) 
        "Height of torque step (if negative, torque is acting as load)";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Torque offsetTorque(start=0) "Offset of torque";
      parameter Modelica.SIunits.Time startTime=0 
        "Torque = offset for time < startTime";
      Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau 
        "Accelerating torque acting at flange (= -flange.tau)";

    equation 
      tau = -flange.tau;
      tau = offsetTorque + (if time < startTime then 0 else stepTorque);
    end TorqueStep;

* * * * *

Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Move.position_der
=======================================================

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Typ Name    Defau Description
  e           lt    
  --- ------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------
  Rea q_qd_qd       Required values for position, speed, acceleration
  l   d[3]          

  Rea dummy         Just to have one input signal that should be
  l                 differentiated to avoid possible problems in the
                    Modelica tool (is not used)

  Rea dummy_d       
  l   er            
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  Type      Name      Description
  --------- --------- ----------------
  Real      qd        

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function position_der
      annotation(derivative=position_der2);
       input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
       input Real dummy 
        "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
       input Real dummy_der;
       output Real qd;
    algorithm 
      qd :=q_qd_qdd[2];
    end position_der;

* * * * *

Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Sources.Move.position_der2
========================================================

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Typ Name    Defau Description
  e           lt    
  --- ------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------
  Rea q_qd_qd       Required values for position, speed, acceleration
  l   d[3]          

  Rea dummy         Just to have one input signal that should be
  l                 differentiated to avoid possible problems in the
                    Modelica tool (is not used)

  Rea dummy_d       
  l   er            

  Rea dummy_d       
  l   er2           
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  Type      Name      Description
  --------- --------- ----------------
  Real      qdd       

Modelica definition
-------------------

    function position_der2
       input Real q_qd_qdd[3] "Required values for position, speed, acceleration";
       input Real dummy 
        "Just to have one input signal that should be differentiated to avoid possible problems in the Modelica tool (is not used)";
       input Real dummy_der;
       input Real dummy_der2;
       output Real qdd;
    algorithm 
      qdd :=q_qd_qdd[3];
    end position_der2;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:30:46 2010.
