Modelica.Fluid.Valves



Modelica.Fluid.Valves
=====================

Components for the regulation and control of fluid flow

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.VariantsPackage (Icon for package containing
variants).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                      Description
  ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------
  [image6] ValveIncompressible              Valve for (almost)
                                            incompressible fluids

  [image7] ValveVaporizing                  Valve for possibly vaporizing
                                            (almost) incompressible
                                            fluids, accounts for choked
                                            flow conditions

  [image8] ValveCompressible                Valve for compressible fluids,
                                            accounts for choked flow
                                            conditions

  [image9] ValveLinear                      Valve for water/steam flows
                                            with linear pressure drop

  [image10] ValveDiscrete                   Valve for water/steam flows
                                            with linear pressure drop

  [image11] BaseClasses                     Base classes used in the
                                            Valves package (only of
                                            interest to build new
                                            component models)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image12] Modelica.Fluid.Valves.ValveIncompressible
===================================================

Valve for (almost) incompressible fluids

Information
-----------

::

Valve model according to the IEC 534/ISA S.75 standards for valve
sizing, incompressible fluids.< /p>

The parameters of this model are explained in detail in PartialValve
(the base model for valves).

This model assumes that the fluid has a low compressibility, which is
always the case for liquids. It can also be used with gases, provided
that the pressure drop is lower than 0.2 times the absolute pressure at
the inlet, so that the fluid density does not change much inside the
valve.

If checkValve is false, the valve supports reverse flow, with a
symmetric flow characteric curve. Otherwise, reverse flow is stopped
(check valve behaviour).

The treatment of parameters Kv and Cv is explained in detail in the
User's Guide.

::

Extends from BaseClasses.PartialValve (Base model for valves).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                    Name                      Defaul Description
                                                    t      
  ----------------------- ------------------------- ------ ----------------
  replaceable package     PartialMedium             Medium 
  Medium                                            in the 
                                                    compon 
                                                    ent    

  replaceable function    linear                    Inhere 
  valveCharacteristic                               nt     
                                                    flow   
                                                    charac 
                                                    terist 
                                                    ic     

  Flow Coefficient                                         

  CvTypes                 CvData                    Modeli Selection of
                                                    ca.Flu flow coefficient
                                                    id.Typ 
                                                    es.CvT 
                                                    ypes.. 
                                                    .      

  Area                    Av                        0      Av (metric) flow
                                                           coefficient [m2]

  Real                    Kv                        0      Kv (metric) flow
                                                           coefficient
                                                           [m3/h]

  Real                    Cv                        0      Cv (US) flow
                                                           coefficient
                                                           [USG/min]

  Nominal operating point                                  

  Pressure                dp_nominal                       Nominal pressure
                                                           drop [Pa]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_nominal                   Nominal mass
                                                           flowrate [kg/s]

  Density                 rho_nominal               Medium Nominal inlet
                                                    .densi density [kg/m3]
                                                    ty_pTX 
                                                    (Mediu 
                                                    m.p_.. 
                                                    .      

  Real                    opening_nominal           1      Nominal opening

  Filtered opening                                         

  Boolean                 filteredOpening           false  = true, if
                                                           opening is
                                                           filtered with a
                                                           2nd order
                                                           CriticalDamping
                                                           filter

  Time                    riseTime                  1      Rise time of the
                                                           filter (time to
                                                           reach 99.6 % of
                                                           an opening step)
                                                           [s]

  Real                    leakageOpening            1e-3   The opening
                                                           signal is
                                                           limited by
                                                           leakageOpening
                                                           (to improve the
                                                           numerics)

  Assumptions                                              

  Boolean                 allowFlowReversal         system = true to allow
                                                    .allow flow reversal,
                                                    FlowRe false restricts
                                                    versal to design
                                                           direction
                                                           (port_a ->
                                                           port_b)

  Boolean                 checkValve                false  Reverse flow
                                                           stopped

  Advanced                                                 

  AbsolutePressure        dp_start                  dp_nom Guess value of
                                                    inal   dp = port_a.p -
                                                           port_b.p [Pa]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_start              m_flow Guess value of
                                                    _nomin m_flow =
                                                    al     port_a.m_flow
                                                           [kg/s]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_small              system Small mass flow
                                                    .m_flo rate for
                                                    w_smal regularization
                                                    l      of zero flow
                                                           [kg/s]

  Pressure                dp_small                  system Regularisation
                                                    .dp_sm of zero flow
                                                    all    [Pa]

  Diagnostics                                              

  Boolean                 show_T                    true   = true, if
                                                           temperatures at
                                                           port_a and
                                                           port_b are
                                                           computed

  Boolean                 show_V_flow               true   = true, if
                                                           volume flow rate
                                                           at inflowing
                                                           port is computed
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                               Name    Description
  ---------------------------------- ------- -----------------------------
  FluidPort_a                        port_a  Fluid connector a (positive
                                             design flow direction is from
                                             port_a to port_b)

  FluidPort_b                        port_b  Fluid connector b (positive
                                             design flow direction is from
                                             port_a to port_b)

  input RealInput                    opening Valve position in the range
                                             0..1

  output RealOutput                  opening Filtered valve position in
                                     _filter the range 0..1
                                     ed      
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ValveIncompressible "Valve for (almost) incompressible fluids"
      extends BaseClasses.PartialValve;
    import Modelica.Fluid.Types.CvTypes;
    protected 
      Real relativeFlowCoefficient;
    initial equation 
      if CvData == CvTypes.OpPoint then
          m_flow_nominal = valveCharacteristic(opening_nominal)*Av*sqrt(rho_nominal)*Utilities.regRoot(dp_nominal, dp_small) 
          "Determination of Av by the operating point";
      end if;

    equation 
      // m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*sqrt(d)*sqrt(dp);

      relativeFlowCoefficient = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual);
      if checkValve then
        m_flow = relativeFlowCoefficient*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                   Modelica.Fluid.Utilities.regRoot2(dp,dp_small,1.0,0.0,use_yd0=true,yd0=0.0);
        /* In Modelica 3.1 (Disadvantage: Unnecessary event at dp=0, and smooth=0, instead of smooth=2)
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                      (if dp>=0 then Utilities.regRoot(dp, dp_small) else 0);
        */
      elseif not allowFlowReversal then
        m_flow = relativeFlowCoefficient*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                      Utilities.regRoot(dp, dp_small);
      else
        m_flow = relativeFlowCoefficient*Av*
                    Modelica.Fluid.Utilities.regRoot2(dp,dp_small,Medium.density(state_a),Medium.density(state_b));

        /* In Modelica 3.1 (Disadvantage: Unnecessary event at dp=0, and smooth=0, instead of smooth=2)
        m_flow = smooth(0, Utilities.regRoot(dp, dp_small)*(if dp>=0 then sqrt(Medium.density(state_a)) else sqrt(Medium.density(state_b))));
        */
      end if;

    end ValveIncompressible;

* * * * *

[image13] Modelica.Fluid.Valves.ValveVaporizing
===============================================

Valve for possibly vaporizing (almost) incompressible fluids, accounts
for choked flow conditions

Information
-----------

::

Valve model according to the IEC 534/ISA S.75 standards for valve
sizing, incompressible fluid at the inlet, and possibly two-phase fluid
at the outlet, including choked flow conditions.

The parameters of this model are explained in detail in PartialValve
(the base model for valves).

The model operating range includes choked flow operation, which takes
place for low outlet pressures due to flashing in the vena contracta;
otherwise, non-choking conditions are assumed.

This model requires a two-phase medium model, to describe the liquid and
(possible) two-phase conditions.

The default liquid pressure recovery coefficient Fl is constant and
given by the parameter Fl_nominal. The relative change (per unit) of the
recovery coefficient can be specified as a given function of the valve
opening by replacing the FlCharacteristic function.

If checkValve is false, the valve supports reverse flow, with a
symmetric flow characteric curve. Otherwise, reverse flow is stopped
(check valve behaviour).

The treatment of parameters Kv and Cv is explained in detail in the
User's Guide.

::

Extends from BaseClasses.PartialValve (Base model for valves).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                    Name                      Defaul Description
                                                    t      
  ----------------------- ------------------------- ------ ----------------
  replaceable package     PartialMedium             Medium 
  Medium                                            in the 
                                                    compon 
                                                    ent    

  replaceable function    linear                    Inhere 
  valveCharacteristic                               nt     
                                                    flow   
                                                    charac 
                                                    terist 
                                                    ic     

  Real                    Fl_nominal                0.9    Liquid pressure
                                                           recovery factor

  replaceable function    Modelica.Fluid.Valves.Bas Pressu 
  FlCharacteristic        eCl...                    re     
                                                    recove 
                                                    ry     
                                                    charac 
                                                    terist 
                                                    ic     

  Flow Coefficient                                         

  CvTypes                 CvData                    Modeli Selection of
                                                    ca.Flu flow coefficient
                                                    id.Typ 
                                                    es.CvT 
                                                    ypes.. 
                                                    .      

  Area                    Av                        0      Av (metric) flow
                                                           coefficient [m2]

  Real                    Kv                        0      Kv (metric) flow
                                                           coefficient
                                                           [m3/h]

  Real                    Cv                        0      Cv (US) flow
                                                           coefficient
                                                           [USG/min]

  Nominal operating point                                  

  Pressure                dp_nominal                       Nominal pressure
                                                           drop [Pa]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_nominal                   Nominal mass
                                                           flowrate [kg/s]

  Density                 rho_nominal               Medium Nominal inlet
                                                    .densi density [kg/m3]
                                                    ty_pTX 
                                                    (Mediu 
                                                    m.p_.. 
                                                    .      

  Real                    opening_nominal           1      Nominal opening

  Filtered opening                                         

  Boolean                 filteredOpening           false  = true, if
                                                           opening is
                                                           filtered with a
                                                           2nd order
                                                           CriticalDamping
                                                           filter

  Time                    riseTime                  1      Rise time of the
                                                           filter (time to
                                                           reach 99.6 % of
                                                           an opening step)
                                                           [s]

  Real                    leakageOpening            1e-3   The opening
                                                           signal is
                                                           limited by
                                                           leakageOpening
                                                           (to improve the
                                                           numerics)

  Assumptions                                              

  Boolean                 allowFlowReversal         system = true to allow
                                                    .allow flow reversal,
                                                    FlowRe false restricts
                                                    versal to design
                                                           direction
                                                           (port_a ->
                                                           port_b)

  Boolean                 checkValve                false  Reverse flow
                                                           stopped

  Advanced                                                 

  AbsolutePressure        dp_start                  dp_nom Guess value of
                                                    inal   dp = port_a.p -
                                                           port_b.p [Pa]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_start              m_flow Guess value of
                                                    _nomin m_flow =
                                                    al     port_a.m_flow
                                                           [kg/s]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_small              system Small mass flow
                                                    .m_flo rate for
                                                    w_smal regularization
                                                    l      of zero flow
                                                           [kg/s]

  Pressure                dp_small                  system Regularisation
                                                    .dp_sm of zero flow
                                                    all    [Pa]

  Diagnostics                                              

  Boolean                 show_T                    true   = true, if
                                                           temperatures at
                                                           port_a and
                                                           port_b are
                                                           computed

  Boolean                 show_V_flow               true   = true, if
                                                           volume flow rate
                                                           at inflowing
                                                           port is computed
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                             Name         Description
  -------------------------------- ------------ ---------------------------
  replaceable package Medium       Medium in    
                                   the          
                                   component    

  FluidPort_a                      port_a       Fluid connector a (positive
                                                design flow direction is
                                                from port_a to port_b)

  FluidPort_b                      port_b       Fluid connector b (positive
                                                design flow direction is
                                                from port_a to port_b)

  input RealInput                  opening      Valve position in the range
                                                0..1

  output RealOutput                opening_filt Filtered valve position in
                                   ered         the range 0..1

  replaceable function             Pressure     
  FlCharacteristic                 recovery     
                                   characterist 
                                   ic           
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ValveVaporizing 
      "Valve for possibly vaporizing (almost) incompressible fluids, accounts for choked flow conditions"
      import Modelica.Fluid.Types.CvTypes;
      extends BaseClasses.PartialValve(
        redeclare replaceable package Medium =
            Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_ph                                    constrainedby 
          Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium);
      parameter Real Fl_nominal=0.9 "Liquid pressure recovery factor";
      replaceable function FlCharacteristic =
          Modelica.Fluid.Valves.BaseClasses.ValveCharacteristics.one
        constrainedby 
        Modelica.Fluid.Valves.BaseClasses.ValveCharacteristics.baseFun 
        "Pressure recovery characteristic";
      Real Ff "Ff coefficient (see IEC/ISA standard)";
      Real Fl "Pressure recovery coefficient Fl (see IEC/ISA standard)";
      SI.Pressure dpEff "Effective pressure drop";
      Medium.Temperature T_in "Inlet temperature";
      Medium.AbsolutePressure p_sat "Saturation pressure";
      Medium.AbsolutePressure p_in "Inlet pressure";
      Medium.AbsolutePressure p_out "Outlet pressure";
    initial equation 
      assert(not CvData == CvTypes.OpPoint, "OpPoint option not supported for vaporizing valve");
    equation 
      p_in = port_a.p;
      p_out = port_b.p;
      T_in = Medium.temperature(state_a);
      p_sat = Medium.saturationPressure(T_in);
      Ff = 0.96 - 0.28*sqrt(p_sat/Medium.fluidConstants[1].criticalPressure);
      Fl = Fl_nominal*FlCharacteristic(opening_actual);
      dpEff = if p_out < (1 - Fl^2)*p_in + Ff*Fl^2*p_sat then 
                Fl^2*(p_in - Ff*p_sat) else dp 
        "Effective pressure drop, accounting for possible choked conditions";
      // m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*sqrt(d)*sqrt(dpEff);
      if checkValve then
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual)*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                   Modelica.Fluid.Utilities.regRoot2(dpEff,dp_small,1.0,0.0,use_yd0=true,yd0=0.0);
       /* In Modelica 3.1 (Disadvantage: Unnecessary event at dpEff=0, and smooth=0, instead of smooth=2)
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                      (if dpEff>=0 then Utilities.regRoot(dpEff, dp_small) else 0);
       */
      elseif not allowFlowReversal then
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual)*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                      Utilities.regRoot(dpEff, dp_small);
      else
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual)*Av*
                    Modelica.Fluid.Utilities.regRoot2(dpEff,dp_small,Medium.density(state_a),Medium.density(state_b));
        /* In Modelica 3.1 (Disadvantage: Unnecessary event at dp=0, and smooth=0, instead of smooth=2)
         m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*
          smooth(0, Utilities.regRoot(dpEff, dp_small)*(if dpEff>=0 then sqrt(Medium.density(state_a)) else sqrt(Medium.density(state_b))));
       */
      end if;

    end ValveVaporizing;

* * * * *

[image14] Modelica.Fluid.Valves.ValveCompressible
=================================================

Valve for compressible fluids, accounts for choked flow conditions

Information
-----------

::

Valve model according to the IEC 534/ISA S.75 standards for valve
sizing, compressible fluid, no phase change, also covering choked-flow
conditions.

The parameters of this model are explained in detail in PartialValve
(the base model for valves).

This model can be used with gases and vapours, with arbitrary pressure
ratio between inlet and outlet.

The product Fk*xt is given by the parameter Fxt_full, and is assumed
constant by default. The relative change (per unit) of the xt
coefficient with the valve opening can be specified by replacing the
xtCharacteristic function.

If checkValve is false, the valve supports reverse flow, with a
symmetric flow characteric curve. Otherwise, reverse flow is stopped
(check valve behaviour).

The treatment of parameters Kv and Cv is explained in detail in the
User's Guide.

::

Extends from BaseClasses.PartialValve (Base model for valves).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                    Name                      Defaul Description
                                                    t      
  ----------------------- ------------------------- ------ ----------------
  replaceable package     PartialMedium             Medium 
  Medium                                            in the 
                                                    compon 
                                                    ent    

  replaceable function    linear                    Inhere 
  valveCharacteristic                               nt     
                                                    flow   
                                                    charac 
                                                    terist 
                                                    ic     

  Real                    Fxt_full                  0.5    Fk*xt critical
                                                           ratio at full
                                                           opening

  replaceable function    Modelica.Fluid.Valves.Bas Critic 
  xtCharacteristic        eCl...                    al     
                                                    ratio  
                                                    charac 
                                                    terist 
                                                    ic     

  Flow Coefficient                                         

  CvTypes                 CvData                    Modeli Selection of
                                                    ca.Flu flow coefficient
                                                    id.Typ 
                                                    es.CvT 
                                                    ypes.. 
                                                    .      

  Area                    Av                        0      Av (metric) flow
                                                           coefficient [m2]

  Real                    Kv                        0      Kv (metric) flow
                                                           coefficient
                                                           [m3/h]

  Real                    Cv                        0      Cv (US) flow
                                                           coefficient
                                                           [USG/min]

  Nominal operating point                                  

  Pressure                dp_nominal                       Nominal pressure
                                                           drop [Pa]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_nominal                   Nominal mass
                                                           flowrate [kg/s]

  Density                 rho_nominal               Medium Nominal inlet
                                                    .densi density [kg/m3]
                                                    ty_pTX 
                                                    (Mediu 
                                                    m.p_.. 
                                                    .      

  Real                    opening_nominal           1      Nominal opening

  AbsolutePressure        p_nominal                        Nominal inlet
                                                           pressure [Pa]

  Filtered opening                                         

  Boolean                 filteredOpening           false  = true, if
                                                           opening is
                                                           filtered with a
                                                           2nd order
                                                           CriticalDamping
                                                           filter

  Time                    riseTime                  1      Rise time of the
                                                           filter (time to
                                                           reach 99.6 % of
                                                           an opening step)
                                                           [s]

  Real                    leakageOpening            1e-3   The opening
                                                           signal is
                                                           limited by
                                                           leakageOpening
                                                           (to improve the
                                                           numerics)

  Assumptions                                              

  Boolean                 allowFlowReversal         system = true to allow
                                                    .allow flow reversal,
                                                    FlowRe false restricts
                                                    versal to design
                                                           direction
                                                           (port_a ->
                                                           port_b)

  Boolean                 checkValve                false  Reverse flow
                                                           stopped

  Advanced                                                 

  AbsolutePressure        dp_start                  dp_nom Guess value of
                                                    inal   dp = port_a.p -
                                                           port_b.p [Pa]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_start              m_flow Guess value of
                                                    _nomin m_flow =
                                                    al     port_a.m_flow
                                                           [kg/s]

  MassFlowRate            m_flow_small              system Small mass flow
                                                    .m_flo rate for
                                                    w_smal regularization
                                                    l      of zero flow
                                                           [kg/s]

  Pressure                dp_small                  system Regularisation
                                                    .dp_sm of zero flow
                                                    all    [Pa]

  Diagnostics                                              

  Boolean                 show_T                    true   = true, if
                                                           temperatures at
                                                           port_a and
                                                           port_b are
                                                           computed

  Boolean                 show_V_flow               true   = true, if
                                                           volume flow rate
                                                           at inflowing
                                                           port is computed
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                             Name        Description
  -------------------------------- ----------- ---------------------------
  FluidPort_a                      port_a      Fluid connector a (positive
                                               design flow direction is
                                               from port_a to port_b)

  FluidPort_b                      port_b      Fluid connector b (positive
                                               design flow direction is
                                               from port_a to port_b)

  input RealInput                  opening     Valve position in the range
                                               0..1

  output RealOutput                opening_fil Filtered valve position in
                                   tered       the range 0..1

  replaceable function             Critical    
  xtCharacteristic                 ratio       
                                   characteris 
                                   tic         
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ValveCompressible 
      "Valve for compressible fluids, accounts for choked flow conditions"
      extends BaseClasses.PartialValve;
      import Modelica.Fluid.Types.CvTypes;
      parameter Medium.AbsolutePressure p_nominal "Nominal inlet pressure";
      parameter Real Fxt_full=0.5 "Fk*xt critical ratio at full opening";
      replaceable function xtCharacteristic =
          Modelica.Fluid.Valves.BaseClasses.ValveCharacteristics.one
        constrainedby 
        Modelica.Fluid.Valves.BaseClasses.ValveCharacteristics.baseFun 
        "Critical ratio characteristic";
      Real Fxt;
      Real x "Pressure drop ratio";
      Real xs "Saturated pressure drop ratio";
      Real Y "Compressibility factor";
      Medium.AbsolutePressure p "Inlet pressure";
    protected 
      parameter Real Fxt_nominal(fixed=false) "Nominal Fxt";
      parameter Real x_nominal(fixed=false) "Nominal pressure drop ratio";
      parameter Real xs_nominal(fixed=false) 
        "Nominal saturated pressure drop ratio";
      parameter Real Y_nominal(fixed=false) "Nominal compressibility factor";

    initial equation 
      if CvData == CvTypes.OpPoint then
        // Determination of Av by the nominal operating point conditions
        Fxt_nominal = Fxt_full*xtCharacteristic(opening_nominal);
        x_nominal = dp_nominal/p_nominal;
        xs_nominal = smooth(0, if x_nominal > Fxt_nominal then Fxt_nominal else x_nominal);
        Y_nominal = 1 - abs(xs_nominal)/(3*Fxt_nominal);
        m_flow_nominal = valveCharacteristic(opening_nominal)*Av*Y_nominal*sqrt(rho_nominal)*Utilities.regRoot(p_nominal*xs_nominal, dp_small);
      else
        // Dummy values
        Fxt_nominal = 0;
        x_nominal = 0;
        xs_nominal = 0;
        Y_nominal = 0;
      end if;

    equation 
      p = noEvent(if dp>=0 then port_a.p else port_b.p);
      Fxt = Fxt_full*xtCharacteristic(opening_actual);
      x = dp/p;
      xs = smooth(0, if x < -Fxt then -Fxt else if x > Fxt then Fxt else x);
      Y = 1 - abs(xs)/(3*Fxt);
      // m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*Y*sqrt(d)*sqrt(p*xs);
      if checkValve then
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual)*Av*Y*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
          (if xs>=0 then Utilities.regRoot(p*xs, dp_small) else 0);
      elseif not allowFlowReversal then
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual)*Av*sqrt(Medium.density(state_a))*
                      Utilities.regRoot(p*xs, dp_small);
      else
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening_actual)*Av*Y*
          smooth(0, Utilities.regRoot(p*xs, dp_small)*(if xs>=0 then sqrt(Medium.density(state_a)) else sqrt(Medium.density(state_b))));
    /*
        m_flow = valveCharacteristic(opening)*Av*Y*
                      Modelica.Fluid.Utilities.regRoot2(p*xs, dp_small, Medium.density(state_a), Medium.density(state_b));
    */
      end if;

    end ValveCompressible;

* * * * *

[image15] Modelica.Fluid.Valves.ValveLinear
===========================================

Valve for water/steam flows with linear pressure drop

Information
-----------

::

This very simple model provides a pressure drop which is proportional to
the flowrate and to the opening input, without computing any fluid
property. It can be used for testing purposes, when a simple model of a
variable pressure loss is needed.

A medium model must be nevertheless be specified, so that the fluid
ports can be connected to other components using the same medium model.

The model is adiabatic (no heat losses to the ambient) and neglects
changes in kinetic energy from the inlet to the outlet.

::

Extends from Modelica.Fluid.Interfaces.PartialTwoPortTransport (Partial
element transporting fluid between two ports without storage of mass or
energy).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                      Name                  Defau Description
                                                  lt    
  ------------------------- --------------------- ----- ------------------
  replaceable package       PartialMedium         Mediu 
  Medium                                          m     
                                                  in    
                                                  the   
                                                  compo 
                                                  nent  

  AbsolutePressure          dp_nominal                  Nominal pressure
                                                        drop at full
                                                        opening [Pa]

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_nominal              Nominal mass
                                                        flowrate at full
                                                        opening [kg/s]

  Assumptions                                           

  Boolean                   allowFlowReversal     syste = true to allow
                                                  m.all flow reversal,
                                                  owFlo false restricts to
                                                  wReve design direction
                                                  rsal  (port_a -> port_b)

  Advanced                                              

  AbsolutePressure          dp_start              0.01* Guess value of dp
                                                  syste = port_a.p -
                                                  m.p_s port_b.p [Pa]
                                                  tart  

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_start          syste Guess value of
                                                  m.m_f m_flow =
                                                  low_s port_a.m_flow
                                                  tart  [kg/s]

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_small          syste Small mass flow
                                                  m.m_f rate for
                                                  low_s regularization of
                                                  mall  zero flow [kg/s]

  Diagnostics                                           

  Boolean                   show_T                true  = true, if
                                                        temperatures at
                                                        port_a and port_b
                                                        are computed

  Boolean                   show_V_flow           true  = true, if volume
                                                        flow rate at
                                                        inflowing port is
                                                        computed
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                 Name Description
  ------------------------------------ ---- -------------------------------
  FluidPort_a                          port Fluid connector a (positive
                                       _a   design flow direction is from
                                            port_a to port_b)

  FluidPort_b                          port Fluid connector b (positive
                                       _b   design flow direction is from
                                            port_a to port_b)

  input RealInput                      open =1: completely open, =0:
                                       ing  completely closed
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ValveLinear 
      "Valve for water/steam flows with linear pressure drop"
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Interfaces.PartialTwoPortTransport;
      parameter SI.AbsolutePressure dp_nominal 
        "Nominal pressure drop at full opening";
      parameter Medium.MassFlowRate m_flow_nominal 
        "Nominal mass flowrate at full opening";
      final parameter Types.HydraulicConductance k = m_flow_nominal/dp_nominal 
        "Hydraulic conductance at full opening";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.RealInput opening(min=0,max=1) 
        "=1: completely open, =0: completely closed";

    equation 
      m_flow = opening*k*dp;

      // Isenthalpic state transformation (no storage and no loss of energy)
      port_a.h_outflow = inStream(port_b.h_outflow);
      port_b.h_outflow = inStream(port_a.h_outflow);

    end ValveLinear;

* * * * *

[image16] Modelica.Fluid.Valves.ValveDiscrete
=============================================

Valve for water/steam flows with linear pressure drop

Information
-----------

::

This very simple model provides a (small) pressure drop which is
proportional to the flowrate if the Boolean open signal is true.
Otherwise, the mass flow rate is zero. If opening_min > 0, a small
leakage mass flow rate occurs when open = false.

This model can be used for simplified modelling of on-off valves, when
it is not important to accurately describe the pressure loss when the
valve is open. Although the medium model is not used to determine the
pressure loss, it must be nevertheless be specified, so that the fluid
ports can be connected to other components using the same medium model.

The model is adiabatic (no heat losses to the ambient) and neglects
changes in kinetic energy from the inlet to the outlet.

In a diagram animation, the valve is shown in "green", when it is open.

::

Extends from Modelica.Fluid.Interfaces.PartialTwoPortTransport (Partial
element transporting fluid between two ports without storage of mass or
energy).

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                      Name                  Defau Description
                                                  lt    
  ------------------------- --------------------- ----- ------------------
  replaceable package       PartialMedium         Mediu 
  Medium                                          m     
                                                  in    
                                                  the   
                                                  compo 
                                                  nent  

  Pressure                  dp_nominal                  Nominal pressure
                                                        drop at full
                                                        opening=1 [Pa]

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_nominal              Nominal mass
                                                        flowrate at full
                                                        opening=1 [kg/s]

  Real                      opening_min           0     Remaining opening
                                                        if closed, causing
                                                        small leakage flow

  Assumptions                                           

  Boolean                   allowFlowReversal     syste = true to allow
                                                  m.all flow reversal,
                                                  owFlo false restricts to
                                                  wReve design direction
                                                  rsal  (port_a -> port_b)

  Advanced                                              

  AbsolutePressure          dp_start              0.01* Guess value of dp
                                                  syste = port_a.p -
                                                  m.p_s port_b.p [Pa]
                                                  tart  

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_start          syste Guess value of
                                                  m.m_f m_flow =
                                                  low_s port_a.m_flow
                                                  tart  [kg/s]

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_small          syste Small mass flow
                                                  m.m_f rate for
                                                  low_s regularization of
                                                  mall  zero flow [kg/s]

  Diagnostics                                           

  Boolean                   show_T                true  = true, if
                                                        temperatures at
                                                        port_a and port_b
                                                        are computed

  Boolean                   show_V_flow           true  = true, if volume
                                                        flow rate at
                                                        inflowing port is
                                                        computed
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name Description
  ------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------------
  FluidPort_a                           port Fluid connector a (positive
                                        _a   design flow direction is from
                                             port_a to port_b)

  FluidPort_b                           port Fluid connector b (positive
                                        _b   design flow direction is from
                                             port_a to port_b)

  input BooleanInput                    open 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ValveDiscrete 
      "Valve for water/steam flows with linear pressure drop"
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Interfaces.PartialTwoPortTransport;
      parameter SI.Pressure dp_nominal "Nominal pressure drop at full opening=1";
      parameter Medium.MassFlowRate m_flow_nominal 
        "Nominal mass flowrate at full opening=1";
      final parameter Types.HydraulicConductance k = m_flow_nominal/dp_nominal 
        "Hydraulic conductance at full opening=1";
      Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.BooleanInput open;
      parameter Real opening_min(min=0)=0 
        "Remaining opening if closed, causing small leakage flow";
    equation 
      m_flow = if open then 1*k*dp else opening_min*k*dp;

      // Isenthalpic state transformation (no storage and no loss of energy)
      port_a.h_outflow = inStream(port_b.h_outflow);
      port_b.h_outflow = inStream(port_a.h_outflow);

    end ValveDiscrete;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:17 2010.
