Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces



Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces
========================================

Connectors and partial models for 1D rotational mechanical components

Information
-----------

::

This package contains connectors and partial models for 1-dim.
rotational mechanical components. The components of this package can
only be used as basic building elements for models.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.InterfacesPackage (Icon for packages
containing interfaces).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                       Description
  ------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  [image17] Flange_a                         1-dim. rotational flange of a
                                             shaft (filled square icon)

  [image18] Flange_b                         1-dim. rotational flange of a
                                             shaft (non-filled square
                                             icon)

  [image19] Support                          Support/housing of a 1-dim.
                                             rotational shaft

  [image20] InternalSupport                  Adapter model to utilize
                                             conditional support connector

  [image21] PartialTwoFlanges                Partial model for a component
                                             with two rotational 1-dim.
                                             shaft flanges

  [image22] PartialOneFlangeAndSupport       Partial model for a component
                                             with one rotational 1-dim.
                                             shaft flange and a support
                                             used for graphical modeling,
                                             i.e., the model is build up
                                             by drag-and-drop from
                                             elementary components

  [image23] PartialTwoFlangesAndSupport      Partial model for a component
                                             with two rotational 1-dim.
                                             shaft flanges and a support
                                             used for graphical modeling,
                                             i.e., the model is build up
                                             by drag-and-drop from
                                             elementary components

  [image24] PartialCompliant                 Partial model for the
                                             compliant connection of two
                                             rotational 1-dim. shaft
                                             flanges

  [image25]                                  Partial model for the
  PartialCompliantWithRelativeStates         compliant connection of two
                                             rotational 1-dim. shaft
                                             flanges where the relative
                                             angle and speed are used as
                                             preferred states

  [image26]                                  Obsolete partial model. Use
  PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport       PartialElementaryOneFlangeAnd
                                             Support2.

  [image27]                                  Partial model for a component
  PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2      with one rotational 1-dim.
                                             shaft flange and a support
                                             used for textual modeling,
                                             i.e., for elementary models

  [image28]                                  Obsolete partial model. Use
  PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport      PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAn
                                             dSupport2.

  [image29]                                  Partial model for a component
  PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport2     with two rotational 1-dim.
                                             shaft flanges and a support
                                             used for textual modeling,
                                             i.e., for elementary models

  [image30]                                  Partial model to transform
  PartialElementaryRotationalToTranslational rotational into translational
                                             motion

  [image31] PartialTorque                    Partial model of a torque
                                             acting at the flange
                                             (accelerates the flange)

  [image32] PartialAbsoluteSensor            Partial model to measure a
                                             single absolute flange
                                             variable

  [image33] PartialRelativeSensor            Partial model to measure a
                                             single relative variable
                                             between two flanges

  PartialFriction                            Partial model of Coulomb
                                             friction elements
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image34] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.Flange_a
===========================================================

1-dim. rotational flange of a shaft (filled square icon)

Information
-----------

::

This is a connector for 1-dim. rotational mechanical systems and models
the mechanical flange of a shaft. The following variables are defined in
this connector:

  ------------ --------------------------------------------------------
  phi          Absolute rotation angle of theshaft flange in [rad]
  tau          Cut-torque in the shaft flange in [Nm]
  ------------ --------------------------------------------------------

There is a second connector for flanges: Flange_b. The connectors
Flange_a and Flange_b are completely identical. There is only a
difference in the icons, in order to easier identify a flange variable
in a diagram. For a discussion on the actual direction of the cut-torque
tau and of the rotation angle, see section Sign Conventions in the
user's guide of Rotational.

If needed, the absolute angular velocity w and the absolute angular
acceleration a of the flange can be determined by differentiation of the
flange angle phi:

    w = der(phi);    a = der(w)

::

Contents
--------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------- ----- --------------------------
  Angle                                    phi   Absolute rotation angle of
                                                 flange [rad]

  flow Torque                              tau   Cut torque in the flange
                                                 [N.m]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Flange_a 
      "1-dim. rotational flange of a shaft (filled square icon)"
      SI.Angle phi "Absolute rotation angle of flange";
      flow SI.Torque tau "Cut torque in the flange";
    end Flange_a;

* * * * *

[image35] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.Flange_b
===========================================================

1-dim. rotational flange of a shaft (non-filled square icon)

Information
-----------

::

This is a connector for 1-dim. rotational mechanical systems and models
the mechanical flange of a shaft. The following variables are defined in
this connector:

  ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------
  phi          Absolute rotation angle of the shaft flange in [rad]
  tau          Cut-torque in the shaft flange in [Nm]
  ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------

There is a second connector for flanges: Flange_a. The connectors
Flange_a and Flange_b are completely identical. There is only a
difference in the icons, in order to easier identify a flange variable
in a diagram. For a discussion on the actual direction of the cut-torque
tau and of the rotation angle, see section Sign Conventions in the
user's guide of Rotational.

If needed, the absolute angular velocity w and the absolute angular
acceleration a of the flange can be determined by differentiation of the
flange angle phi:

    w = der(phi);    a = der(w)

::

Contents
--------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                     Name  Description
  ---------------------------------------- ----- --------------------------
  Angle                                    phi   Absolute rotation angle of
                                                 flange [rad]

  flow Torque                              tau   Cut torque in the flange
                                                 [N.m]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Flange_b 
      "1-dim. rotational flange of a shaft (non-filled square icon)"
      SI.Angle phi "Absolute rotation angle of flange";
      flow SI.Torque tau "Cut torque in the flange";
    end Flange_b;

* * * * *

[image36] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.Support
==========================================================

Support/housing of a 1-dim. rotational shaft

Information
-----------

::

This is a connector for 1-dim. rotational mechanical systems and models
the support or housing of a shaft. The following variables are defined
in this connector:

  ------------ ------------------------------------------------------------
  phi          Absolute rotation angle of the support/housing in [rad]
  tau          Reaction torque in the support/housing in [Nm]
  ------------ ------------------------------------------------------------

The support connector is usually defined as conditional connector. It is
most convenient to utilize it

-   For models to be build graphically (i.e., the model is build up by
    drag-and-drop from elementary components):

    PartialOneFlangeAndSupport,

    PartialTwoFlangesAndSupport,
-   For models to be build textually (i.e., elementary models):

    PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport,

    PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport,

    PartialElementaryRotationalToTranslational.

::

Contents
--------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                 Name Description
  ------------------------------------ ---- ------------------------------
  Angle                                phi  Absolute rotation angle of the
                                            support/housing [rad]

  flow Torque                          tau  Reaction torque in the
                                            support/housing [N.m]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    connector Support "Support/housing of a 1-dim. rotational shaft"

      SI.Angle phi "Absolute rotation angle of the support/housing";
      flow SI.Torque tau "Reaction torque in the support/housing";

    end Support;

* * * * *

[image37] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.InternalSupport
==================================================================

Adapter model to utilize conditional support connector

Information
-----------

::

This is an adapter model to utilize a conditional support connector in
an elementary component, i.e., where the component equations are defined
textually:

-   If useSupport = true, the flange has to be connected to the
    conditional support connector.
-   If useSupport = false, the flange has to be connected to the
    conditional fixed model.

Variable tau is defined as input and must be provided when using this
component as a modifier (computed via a torque balance in the model
where InternalSupport is used). Usually, model InternalSupport is
utilized via the partial models:

  PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport,

  PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport,

  PartialElementaryRotationalToTranslational.

Note, the support angle can always be accessed as internalSupport.phi,
and the support torque can always be accessed as internalSupport.tau.

::

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                          Na Description
                                me 
  ----------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------
  Flange_a                      fl Internal support flange (must be
                                an connected to the conditional support
                                ge connector for useSupport=true and to
                                   conditional fixed model for
                                   useSupport=false)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model InternalSupport 
      "Adapter model to utilize conditional support connector"
      input Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau 
        "External support torque (must be computed via torque balance in model where InternalSupport is used; = flange.tau)";
      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi "External support angle (= flange.phi)";
      Flange_a flange 
        "Internal support flange (must be connected to the conditional support connector for useSupport=true and to conditional fixed model for useSupport=false)";

    equation 
      flange.tau = tau;
      flange.phi = phi;
    end InternalSupport;

* * * * *

[image38] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTwoFlanges
====================================================================

Partial model for a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with two flanges. It is used e.g.,
to build up parts of a drive train consisting of several components.

::

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Name   Description
  ----------------------------------------------------- ------ ------------
  Flange_a                                              flange Flange of
                                                        _a     left shaft

  Flange_b                                              flange Flange of
                                                        _b     right shaft
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialTwoFlanges 
      "Partial model for a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges"

      Flange_a flange_a "Flange of left shaft";
      Flange_b flange_b "Flange of right shaft";
    end PartialTwoFlanges;

* * * * *

[image39] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialOneFlangeAndSupport
=============================================================================

Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for graphical modeling, i.e., the model is build up
by drag-and-drop from elementary components

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with one flange and a
support/housing. It is used e.g., to build up parts of a drive train
graphically consisting of several components.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialOneFlangeAndSupport 
      "Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange and a support used for graphical modeling, i.e., the model is build up by drag-and-drop from elementary components"
      parameter Boolean useSupport=false 
        "= true, if support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Flange_b flange "Flange of shaft";
      Support support if useSupport "Support/housing of component";
    protected 
      Support internalSupport 
        "Internal support/housing of component (either connected to support, if useSupport=true, or connected to fixed, if useSupport=false)";
      Components.Fixed fixed if not useSupport 
        "Fixed support/housing, if not useSupport";
    equation 
      connect(support, internalSupport);
      connect(internalSupport, fixed.flange);
    end PartialOneFlangeAndSupport;

* * * * *

[image40] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTwoFlangesAndSupport
==============================================================================

Partial model for a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges
and a support used for graphical modeling, i.e., the model is build up
by drag-and-drop from elementary components

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with two flanges and a
support/housing. It is used e.g., to build up parts of a drive train
graphically consisting of several components.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name   Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ------ --------------
  Flange_a                                            flange Flange of left
                                                      _a     shaft

  Flange_b                                            flange Flange of
                                                      _b     right shaft

  Support                                             suppor Support/housin
                                                      t      g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialTwoFlangesAndSupport 
      "Partial model for a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges and a support used for graphical modeling, i.e., the model is build up by drag-and-drop from elementary components"
      parameter Boolean useSupport=false 
        "= true, if support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Flange_a flange_a "Flange of left shaft";
      Flange_b flange_b "Flange of right shaft";
      Support support if useSupport "Support/housing of component";
    protected 
      Support internalSupport 
        "Internal support/housing of component (either connected to support, if useSupport=true, or connected to fixed, if useSupport=false)";
      Components.Fixed fixed if not useSupport 
        "Fixed support/housing, if not useSupport";
    equation 
      connect(support, internalSupport);
      connect(internalSupport, fixed.flange);
    end PartialTwoFlangesAndSupport;

* * * * *

[image41] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialCompliant
===================================================================

Partial model for the compliant connection of two rotational 1-dim.
shaft flanges

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with a compliant connection of two
rotational 1-dim. flanges where inertial effects between the two flanges
are neglected. The basic assumption is that the cut-torques of the two
flanges sum-up to zero, i.e., they have the same absolute value but
opposite sign: flange_a.tau + flange_b.tau = 0. This base class is used
to built up force elements such as springs, dampers, friction.

::

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Name  Description
  -------------------------------------------- ----- ----------------------
  Flange_a                                     flang Left flange of
                                               e_a   compliant 1-dim.
                                                     rotational component

  Flange_b                                     flang Right flange of
                                               e_b   compliant 1-dim.
                                                     rotational component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialCompliant 
      "Partial model for the compliant connection of two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges"

      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi_rel(start=0) 
        "Relative rotation angle (= flange_b.phi - flange_a.phi)";
      Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau "Torque between flanges (= flange_b.tau)";
      Flange_a flange_a "Left flange of compliant 1-dim. rotational component";
      Flange_b flange_b "Right flange of compliant 1-dim. rotational component";

    equation 
      phi_rel = flange_b.phi - flange_a.phi;
      flange_b.tau = tau;
      flange_a.tau = -tau;
    end PartialCompliant;

* * * * *

[image42] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialCompliantWithRelativeStates
=====================================================================================

Partial model for the compliant connection of two rotational 1-dim.
shaft flanges where the relative angle and speed are used as preferred
states

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with a compliant connection of two
rotational 1-dim. flanges where inertial effects between the two flanges
are neglected. The basic assumption is that the cut-torques of the two
flanges sum-up to zero, i.e., they have the same absolute value but
opposite sign: flange_a.tau + flange_b.tau = 0. This base class is used
to built up force elements such as springs, dampers, friction.

The relative angle and the relative speed are defined as preferred
states. The reason is that for some drive trains, such as drive trains
in vehicles, the absolute angle is quickly increasing during operation.
Numerically, it is better to use relative angles between drive train
components because they remain in a limited size. For this reason,
StateSelect.prefer is set for the relative angle of this component.

In order to improve the numerics, a nominal value for the relative angle
can be provided via parameter phi_nominal in the Advanced menu. The
default ist 1e-4 rad since relative angles are usually in this order and
the step size control of an integrator would be practically switched
off, if a default of 1 rad would be used. This nominal value might also
be computed from other values, such as "phi_nominal = tau_nominal / c"
for a rotational spring, if tau_nominal and c are more meaningful for
the user.

::

Parameters
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                        Name    Default    Description
  --------------------------- ------- ---------- -------------------------
  Advanced                                       

  Angle                       phi_nom 1e-4       Nominal value of phi_rel
                              inal               (used for scaling) [rad]

  StateSelect                 stateSe StateSelec Priority to use phi_rel
                              lect    t.prefer   and w_rel as states
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Name  Description
  -------------------------------------------- ----- ----------------------
  Flange_a                                     flang Left flange of
                                               e_a   compliant 1-dim.
                                                     rotational component

  Flange_b                                     flang Right flange of
                                               e_b   compliant 1-dim.
                                                     rotational component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialCompliantWithRelativeStates 
      "Partial model for the compliant connection of two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges where the relative angle and speed are used as preferred states"

      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi_rel(start=0, stateSelect=stateSelect, nominal=phi_nominal) 
        "Relative rotation angle (= flange_b.phi - flange_a.phi)";
      Modelica.SIunits.AngularVelocity w_rel(start=0, stateSelect=stateSelect) 
        "Relative angular velocity (= der(phi_rel))";
      Modelica.SIunits.AngularAcceleration a_rel(start=0) 
        "Relative angular acceleration (= der(w_rel))";
      Modelica.SIunits.Torque tau "Torque between flanges (= flange_b.tau)";
      Flange_a flange_a "Left flange of compliant 1-dim. rotational component";
      Flange_b flange_b "Right flange of compliant 1-dim. rotational component";

      parameter SI.Angle phi_nominal(displayUnit="rad")=1e-4 
        "Nominal value of phi_rel (used for scaling)";
      parameter StateSelect stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer 
        "Priority to use phi_rel and w_rel as states";

    equation 
      phi_rel = flange_b.phi - flange_a.phi;
      w_rel = der(phi_rel);
      a_rel = der(w_rel);
      flange_b.tau = tau;
      flange_a.tau = -tau;
    end PartialCompliantWithRelativeStates;

* * * * *

[image43] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport
=======================================================================================

Obsolete partial model. Use PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2.

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with one flange and a
support/housing. It is used to build up elementary components of a drive
train with equations in the text layer.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.ObsoleteModel (Icon for classes that are
obsolete and will be removed in later versions).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport 
      "Obsolete partial model. Use PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2."
      extends Modelica.Icons.ObsoleteModel;
      parameter Boolean useSupport=false 
        "= true, if support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Flange_b flange "Flange of shaft";
      Support support if useSupport "Support/housing of component";
    protected 
      Rotational.Interfaces.InternalSupport internalSupport(tau = -flange.tau) 
        "Internal support/housing of component as a model with connector flange (flange is either connected to support, if useSupport=true, or connected to fixed, if useSupport=false)";
      Rotational.Components.Fixed fixed if not useSupport 
        "Fixed support/housing, if not useSupport";
    equation 
      connect(internalSupport.flange, support);
      connect(internalSupport.flange, fixed.flange);
    end PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport;

* * * * *

[image44] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
========================================================================================

Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with one flange and a
support/housing. It is used to build up elementary components of a drive
train with equations in the text layer.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2 
      "Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models"
      parameter Boolean useSupport=false 
        "= true, if support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Flange_b flange "Flange of shaft";
      Support support(phi = phi_support, tau = -flange.tau) if useSupport 
        "Support/housing of component";
    protected 
      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi_support "Absolute angle of support flange";
    equation 
      if not useSupport then
         phi_support = 0;
      end if;
    end PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;

* * * * *

[image45] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport
========================================================================================

Obsolete partial model. Use PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport2.

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with two flanges and a
support/housing. It is used to build up elementary components of a drive
train with equations in the text layer.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.ObsoleteModel (Icon for classes that are
obsolete and will be removed in later versions).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name   Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ------ --------------
  Flange_a                                            flange Flange of left
                                                      _a     shaft

  Flange_b                                            flange Flange of
                                                      _b     right shaft

  Support                                             suppor Support/housin
                                                      t      g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport 
      "Obsolete partial model. Use PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport2."
      extends Modelica.Icons.ObsoleteModel;
      parameter Boolean useSupport=false 
        "= true, if support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Flange_a flange_a "Flange of left shaft";
      Flange_b flange_b "Flange of right shaft";
      Support support if useSupport "Support/housing of component";
    protected 
      Rotational.Interfaces.InternalSupport internalSupport(tau = -flange_a.tau - flange_b.tau) 
        "Internal support/housing of component as a model with connector flange (flange is either connected to support, if useSupport=true, or connected to fixed, if useSupport=false)";
      Rotational.Components.Fixed fixed if not useSupport 
        "Fixed support/housing, if not useSupport";
    equation 
      connect(internalSupport.flange, support);
      connect(internalSupport.flange, fixed.flange);
    end PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport;

* * * * *

[image46] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport2
=========================================================================================

Partial model for a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with two flanges and a
support/housing. It is used to build up elementary components of a drive
train with equations in the text layer.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name   Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ------ --------------
  Flange_a                                            flange Flange of left
                                                      _a     shaft

  Flange_b                                            flange Flange of
                                                      _b     right shaft

  Support                                             suppor Support/housin
                                                      t      g
                                                             of component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport2 
      "Partial model for a component with two rotational 1-dim. shaft flanges and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models"
      parameter Boolean useSupport=false 
        "= true, if support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Flange_a flange_a "Flange of left shaft";
      Flange_b flange_b "Flange of right shaft";
      Support support(phi = phi_support, tau=-flange_a.tau-flange_b.tau) if useSupport 
        "Support/housing of component";
    protected 
      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi_support "Absolute angle of support flange";
    equation 
      if not useSupport then
         phi_support = 0;
      end if;

    end PartialElementaryTwoFlangesAndSupport2;

* * * * *

[image47] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryRotationalToTranslational
=============================================================================================

Partial model to transform rotational into translational motion

Information
-----------

::

This is a 1-dim. rotational component with

-   one rotational flange,
-   one rotational support/housing,
-   one translational flange, and
-   one translatinal support/housing

This model is used to build up elementary components of a drive train
transforming rotational into translational motion with equations in the
text layer.

If useSupportR=true, the rotational support connector is conditionally
enabled and needs to be connected. If useSupportR=false, the rotational
support connector is conditionally disabled and instead the rotational
part is internally fixed to ground. If useSupportT=true, the
translational support connector is conditionally enabled and needs to be
connected. If useSupportT=false, the translational support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the translational part is internally
fixed to ground.

::

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type    Name      Default Description
  ------- --------- ------- ------------------------------------------------
  Boolean useSuppor false   = true, if rotational support flange enabled,
          tR                otherwise implicitly grounded

  Boolean useSuppor false   = true, if translational support flange enabled,
          tT                otherwise implicitly grounded
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name  Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ----- ------------------
  Flange_a                                         flang Flange of
                                                   eR    rotational shaft

  Flange_b                                         flang Flange of
                                                   eT    translational rod

  Support                                          suppo Rotational
                                                   rtR   support/housing of
                                                         component

  Support                                          suppo Translational
                                                   rtT   support/housing of
                                                         component
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialElementaryRotationalToTranslational 
      "Partial model to transform rotational into translational motion"
      parameter Boolean useSupportR=false 
        "= true, if rotational support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      parameter Boolean useSupportT=false 
        "= true, if translational support flange enabled, otherwise implicitly grounded";
      Rotational.Interfaces.Flange_a flangeR "Flange of rotational shaft";
      Modelica.Mechanics.Translational.Interfaces.Flange_b flangeT 
        "Flange of translational rod";
      Rotational.Interfaces.Support supportR if useSupportR 
        "Rotational support/housing of component";
      Translational.Interfaces.Support supportT if useSupportT 
        "Translational support/housing of component";

    protected 
      Rotational.Interfaces.InternalSupport internalSupportR(tau = - flangeR.tau);
      Translational.Interfaces.InternalSupport internalSupportT(f = -flangeT.f);
      Rotational.Components.Fixed fixedR if not useSupportR;
      Translational.Components.Fixed fixedT if not useSupportT;
    equation 
      connect(internalSupportR.flange, supportR);
      connect(internalSupportR.flange, fixedR.flange);
      connect(fixedT.flange, internalSupportT.flange);
      connect(internalSupportT.flange, supportT);
    end PartialElementaryRotationalToTranslational;

* * * * *

[image48] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialTorque
================================================================

Partial model of a torque acting at the flange (accelerates the flange)

Information
-----------

::

Partial model of torque that accelerates the flange.

If useSupport=true, the support connector is conditionally enabled and
needs to be connected. If useSupport=false, the support connector is
conditionally disabled and instead the component is internally fixed to
ground.

::

Extends from
Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2
(Partial model for a component with one rotational 1-dim. shaft flange
and a support used for textual modeling, i.e., for elementary models).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type     Name       Default  Description
  -------- ---------- -------- ----------------------------------------------
  Boolean  useSupport false    = true, if support flange enabled, otherwise
                               implicitly grounded
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name  Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------
  Flange_b                                            flang Flange of
                                                      e     shaft

  Support                                             suppo Support/housin
                                                      rt    g
                                                            of component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialTorque 
      "Partial model of a torque acting at the flange (accelerates the flange)"
      extends Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialElementaryOneFlangeAndSupport2;
      Modelica.SIunits.Angle phi 
        "Angle of flange with respect to support (= flange.phi - support.phi)";

    equation 
      phi = flange.phi - phi_support;
    end PartialTorque;

* * * * *

[image49] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialAbsoluteSensor
========================================================================

Partial model to measure a single absolute flange variable

Information
-----------

::

This is a partial model of a 1-dim. rotational component with one flange
of a shaft in order to measure an absolute kinematic quantity in the
flange and to provide the measured signal as output signal for further
processing with the blocks of package Modelica.Blocks.

::

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                       Name Description
  ------------------------------------------ ---- -------------------------
  Flange_a                                   flan Flange of shaft from
                                             ge   which sensor information
                                                  shall be measured
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialAbsoluteSensor 
      "Partial model to measure a single absolute flange variable"

      Flange_a flange 
        "Flange of shaft from which sensor information shall be measured";

    equation 
      0 = flange.tau;
    end PartialAbsoluteSensor;

* * * * *

[image50] Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialRelativeSensor
========================================================================

Partial model to measure a single relative variable between two flanges

Information
-----------

::

This is a partial model for 1-dim. rotational components with two
rigidly connected flanges in order to measure relative kinematic
quantities between the two flanges or the cut-torque in the flange and
to provide the measured signal as output signal for further processing
with the blocks of package Modelica.Blocks.

::

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Name   Description
  ----------------------------------------------------- ------ ------------
  Flange_a                                              flange Left flange
                                                        _a     of shaft

  Flange_b                                              flange Right flange
                                                        _b     of shaft
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialRelativeSensor 
      "Partial model to measure a single relative variable between two flanges"

      Flange_a flange_a "Left flange of shaft";
      Flange_b flange_b "Right flange of shaft";

    equation 
      0 = flange_a.tau + flange_b.tau;
    end PartialRelativeSensor;

* * * * *

Modelica.Mechanics.Rotational.Interfaces.PartialFriction
========================================================

Partial model of Coulomb friction elements

Information
-----------

::

Basic model for Coulomb friction that models the stuck phase in a
reliable way.

::

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                  Nam Def Description
                        e   aul 
                            t   
  --------------------- --- --- -------------------------------------------
  Advanced                      

  AngularVelocity       w_s 1.0 Relative angular velocity near to zero if
                        mal e10 jumps due to a reinit(..) of the velocity
                        l       can occur (set to low value only if such
                                impulses can occur) [rad/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    partial model PartialFriction 
      "Partial model of Coulomb friction elements"

      // parameter SI.AngularVelocity w_small=1 "Relative angular velocity near to zero (see model info text)";
      parameter SI.AngularVelocity w_small=1.0e10 
        "Relative angular velocity near to zero if jumps due to a reinit(..) of the velocity can occur (set to low value only if such impulses can occur)";
    // Equations to define the following variables have to be defined in subclasses
      SI.AngularVelocity w_relfric 
        "Relative angular velocity between frictional surfaces";
      SI.AngularAcceleration a_relfric 
        "Relative angular acceleration between frictional surfaces";
    //SI.Torque tau "Friction torque (positive, if directed in opposite direction of w_rel)";
      SI.Torque tau0 "Friction torque for w=0 and forward sliding";
      SI.Torque tau0_max "Maximum friction torque for w=0 and locked";
      Boolean free "true, if frictional element is not active";
    // Equations to define the following variables are given in this class
      Real sa(final unit="1") 
        "Path parameter of friction characteristic tau = f(a_relfric)";
      Boolean startForward(start=false, fixed=true) 
        "true, if w_rel=0 and start of forward sliding";
      Boolean startBackward(start=false, fixed=true) 
        "true, if w_rel=0 and start of backward sliding";
      Boolean locked(start=false) "true, if w_rel=0 and not sliding";
      constant Integer Unknown=3 "Value of mode is not known";
      constant Integer Free=2 "Element is not active";
      constant Integer Forward=1 "w_rel > 0 (forward sliding)";
      constant Integer Stuck=0 
        "w_rel = 0 (forward sliding, locked or backward sliding)";
      constant Integer Backward=-1 "w_rel < 0 (backward sliding)";
      Integer mode(
        final min=Backward,
        final max=Unknown,
        start=Unknown, fixed=true);
    protected 
      constant SI.AngularAcceleration unitAngularAcceleration = 1;
      constant SI.Torque unitTorque = 1;
    equation 
    /* Friction characteristic
       locked is introduced to help the Modelica translator determining
       the different structural configurations,
       if for each configuration special code shall be generated)
    */
      startForward = pre(mode) == Stuck and (sa > tau0_max/unitTorque or pre(startForward)
         and sa > tau0/unitTorque) or pre(mode) == Backward and w_relfric > w_small or 
        initial() and (w_relfric > 0);
      startBackward = pre(mode) == Stuck and (sa < -tau0_max/unitTorque or pre(
        startBackward) and sa < -tau0/unitTorque) or pre(mode) == Forward and w_relfric <
        -w_small or initial() and (w_relfric < 0);
      locked = not free and not (pre(mode) == Forward or startForward or pre(
        mode) == Backward or startBackward);

      a_relfric/unitAngularAcceleration = if locked then               0 else 
                                          if free then                 sa else 
                                          if startForward then         sa - tau0_max/unitTorque else 
                                          if startBackward then        sa + tau0_max/unitTorque else 
                                          if pre(mode) == Forward then sa - tau0_max/unitTorque else 
                                                                       sa + tau0_max/unitTorque;

    /* Friction torque has to be defined in a subclass. Example for a clutch:
       tau = if locked then sa else
             if free then   0 else
             cgeo*fn*(if startForward then          Math.tempInterpol1( w_relfric, mue_pos, 2) else
                      if startBackward then        -Math.tempInterpol1(-w_relfric, mue_pos, 2) else
                      if pre(mode) == Forward then  Math.tempInterpol1( w_relfric, mue_pos, 2) else
                                                   -Math.tempInterpol1(-w_relfric, mue_pos, 2));
    */
    // finite state machine to determine configuration
      mode = if free then Free else 
        (if (pre(mode) == Forward  or pre(mode) == Free or startForward)  and w_relfric > 0 then 
           Forward else 
         if (pre(mode) == Backward or pre(mode) == Free or startBackward) and w_relfric < 0 then 
           Backward else 
           Stuck);
    end PartialFriction;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:30:47 2010.
