Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage



Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage
==========================================

Leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and hence no
force generation; mu_r=1

Information
-----------

::

Please have a look at UsersGuide.ReluctanceForceCalculation for an
explanation of the different flux tube categories and resulting
sub-packages.

The permeances of all elements of this package are calculated from their
geometry. These flux tube elements are intended for modelling of leakage
fields through vacuum, air and other media with a relative permeability
mu_r=1. Basic.LeakageWithCoefficient accounts for leakage not by the
geometry of flux tubes, but by a coupling coefficient c_usefulFlux.

All dimensions are defined as parameters. As a result, the shape of
these elements will remain constant during dynamic simulation of
actuators and reluctance forces will not be generated in these flux tube
elements. A simple leakage flux tube with reluctance force generation is
provided with the element Force.LeakageAroundPoles. In cases where the
accuracy of that element is not sufficient, the leakage elements of this
package can be adapted and extended so that they are able to change
their shape with armature motion and to generate reluctance forces. This
requires an extension of the partial model Interfaces.PartialForce, a
higher variability of the variables representing the flux tube's
dimensions, definition of a relationship between armature position and
these dimensions and determination of the analytic derivative dG_m/dx of
the flux tube's permeance G_m with respect to armature position x.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.VariantsPackage (Icon for package containing
variants).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                             Description
  ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------
  [image9] QuarterCylinder                         Leakage flux from one
                                                   edge to the opposite
                                                   plane through a quarter
                                                   cylinder

  [image10] QuarterHollowCylinder                  Leakage flux in
                                                   circumferential
                                                   direction through a
                                                   quarter hollow cylinder

  [image11] HalfCylinder                           Leakage flux through
                                                   the edges of a half
                                                   cylinder

  [image12] HalfHollowCylinder                     Leakage flux in
                                                   circumferential
                                                   direction through a
                                                   half hollow cylinder

  [image13] QuarterSphere                          Leakage flux through
                                                   the corners of a
                                                   quarter sphere

  [image14] QuarterHollowSphere                    Leakage flux through
                                                   the edges of a qarter
                                                   hollow sphere

  [image15] EighthOfSphere                         Leakage flux through
                                                   one edge and the
                                                   opposite plane of an
                                                   eighth of a sphere

  [image16] EighthOfHollowSphere                   Leakage flux through
                                                   one edge and the
                                                   opposite plane of an
                                                   eighth of a hollow
                                                   sphere

  [image17] CoaxCylindersEndFaces                  Leakage flux between
                                                   the end planes of a
                                                   inner solid cylinder
                                                   and a coaxial outer
                                                   hollow cylinder
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image18] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.QuarterCylinder
====================================================================

Leakage flux from one edge to the opposite plane through a quarter
cylinder

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                   Nam Defa Description
                         e   ult  
  ---------------------- --- ---- -----------------------------------------
  Length                 l        Axial length orthogonal to flux (=2*pi*r
                                  for cylindrical pole and r>>distance
                                  between edge and plane) [m]

  [image20]                       
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model QuarterCylinder 
      "Leakage flux from one edge to the opposite plane through a quarter cylinder"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Length l( start = 0.1) 
        "Axial length orthogonal to flux (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and r>>distance between edge and plane)";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * 0.52 * l;

    end QuarterCylinder;

* * * * *

[image21] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.QuarterHollowCylinder
==========================================================================

Leakage flux in circumferential direction through a quarter hollow
cylinder

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                       Name Defau Description
                                  lt    
  -------------------------- ---- ----- ------------------------------------
  Length                     l          Axial length orthogonal to flux
                                        (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and
                                        r>>r_i) [m]

  Real                       rati       Constant ratio t/r_i
                             o          

  [image23]                             
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model QuarterHollowCylinder 
      "Leakage flux in circumferential direction through a quarter hollow cylinder"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Length l( start = 0.1) 
        "Axial length orthogonal to flux (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and r>>r_i)";
      parameter Real ratio( start = 1) "Constant ratio t/r_i";

    equation 
      G_m = 2* mu_0 * l * Modelica.Math.log(1 + ratio) /pi;

    end QuarterHollowCylinder;

* * * * *

[image24] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.HalfCylinder
=================================================================

Leakage flux through the edges of a half cylinder

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                     Nam Defa Description
                           e   ult  
  ------------------------ --- ---- ---------------------------------------
  Length                   l        Axial length orthogonal to flux
                                    (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and
                                    r>>distance between edges) [m]

  [image26]                         
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model HalfCylinder 
      "Leakage flux through the edges of a half cylinder"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Length l( start = 0.1) 
        "Axial length orthogonal to flux (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and r>>distance between edges)";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * 0.26 * l;

    end HalfCylinder;

* * * * *

[image27] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.HalfHollowCylinder
=======================================================================

Leakage flux in circumferential direction through a half hollow cylinder

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                       Name Defau Description
                                  lt    
  -------------------------- ---- ----- ------------------------------------
  Length                     l          Axial length orthogonal to flux
                                        (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and
                                        r>>r_i) [m]

  Real                       rati       Constant ratio t/r_i
                             o          

  [image29]                             
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model HalfHollowCylinder 
      "Leakage flux in circumferential direction through a half hollow cylinder"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Length l( start = 0.1) 
        "Axial length orthogonal to flux (=2*pi*r for cylindrical pole and r>>r_i)";
      parameter Real ratio( start = 1) "Constant ratio t/r_i";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * l * Modelica.Math.log(1 + ratio) /pi;

    end HalfHollowCylinder;

* * * * *

[image30] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.QuarterSphere
==================================================================

Leakage flux through the corners of a quarter sphere

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                   Name  Default Description
  -------------------------------------- ----- ------- --------------------
  Radius                                 r             Radius of quarter
                                                       sphere [m]

  [image32]                                            
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model QuarterSphere 
      "Leakage flux through the corners of a quarter sphere"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Radius r( start = 0.005) "Radius of quarter sphere";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * 0.077 * 2*r;

    end QuarterSphere;

* * * * *

[image33] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.QuarterHollowSphere
========================================================================

Leakage flux through the edges of a qarter hollow sphere

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name  Default Description
  ------------------------------------- ----- ------- ---------------------
  Length                                t             Thickness of sperical
                                                      shell [m]

  [image35]                                           
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model QuarterHollowSphere 
      "Leakage flux through the edges of a qarter hollow sphere"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Length t( start = 0.01) "Thickness of sperical shell";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * 0.25 * t;

    end QuarterHollowSphere;

* * * * *

[image36] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.EighthOfSphere
===================================================================

Leakage flux through one edge and the opposite plane of an eighth of a
sphere

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name  Default Description
  ------------------------------------- ----- ------- ---------------------
  Radius                                r             Radius of eighth of
                                                      sphere [m]

  [image38]                                           
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model EighthOfSphere 
      "Leakage flux through one edge and the opposite plane of an eighth of a sphere"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Radius r( start = 0.01) "Radius of eighth of sphere";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * 0.308 * r;

    end EighthOfSphere;

* * * * *

[image39] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.EighthOfHollowSphere
=========================================================================

Leakage flux through one edge and the opposite plane of an eighth of a
hollow sphere

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                  Name  Default Description
  ------------------------------------- ----- ------- ---------------------
  Length                                t             Thickness of sperical
                                                      shell [m]

  [image41]                                           
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model EighthOfHollowSphere 
      "Leakage flux through one edge and the opposite plane of an eighth of a hollow sphere"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Length t( start = 0.01) "Thickness of sperical shell";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0 * 0.5 * t;

    end EighthOfHollowSphere;

* * * * *

[image42] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Leakage.CoaxCylindersEndFaces
==========================================================================

Leakage flux between the end planes of a inner solid cylinder and a
coaxial outer hollow cylinder

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Leakage for a description of
all elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage (Base
class for leakage flux tubes with position-independent permeance and
hence no force generation; mu_r=1).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                               Name  Defaul Description
                                           t      
  ---------------------------------- ----- ------ -------------------------
  Radius                             r_0          Radius of inner solid
                                                  cylinder [m]

  Radius                             r_1          Inner radius of outer
                                                  hollow cylinder [m]

  Radius                             r_2          Outer radius of outer
                                                  hollow cylinder [m]

  [image44]                                       
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  PositiveMagneticPort                                    port Positive
                                                          _p   magnetic
                                                               port

  NegativeMagneticPort                                    port Negative
                                                          _n   magnetic
                                                               port
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model CoaxCylindersEndFaces 
      "Leakage flux between the end planes of a inner solid cylinder and a coaxial outer hollow cylinder"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialLeakage;

      parameter SI.Radius r_0( start = 10e-3) "Radius of inner solid cylinder";
      parameter SI.Radius r_1( start = 17e-3) 
        "Inner radius of outer hollow cylinder";
      parameter SI.Radius r_2( start = 20e-3) 
        "Outer radius of outer hollow cylinder";

      final parameter SI.Distance l_g = r_1 - r_0 
        "Radial gap length between both cylinders";
      final parameter SI.Length t = r_2 - r_1 
        "Radial thickness of outer hollow cylinder";

    equation 
      // [Ro41], p. 139, Eq. (22)
      G_m = if t <= r_0 then 
            2 * mu_0 * (r_0 + l_g/2) * Modelica.Math.log(1 + 2*t/l_g) else 
            2 * mu_0 * (r_0 + l_g/2) * Modelica.Math.log(1 + 2*r_0/l_g);

    end CoaxCylindersEndFaces;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:29:52 2010.
