Modelica.Fluid.Vessels



Modelica.Fluid.Vessels
======================

Devices for storing fluid

Information
-----------

::

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.VariantsPackage (Icon for package containing
variants).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                       Description
  ------------------------------------------ -----------------------------
  [image3] ClosedVolume                      Volume of fixed size, closed
                                             to the ambient, with
                                             inlet/outlet ports

  [image4] OpenTank                          Simple tank with inlet/outlet
                                             ports

  [image5] BaseClasses                       Base classes used in the
                                             Vessels package (only of
                                             interest to build new
                                             component models)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image6] Modelica.Fluid.Vessels.ClosedVolume
============================================

Volume of fixed size, closed to the ambient, with inlet/outlet ports

Information
-----------

::

Ideally mixed volume of constant size with two fluid ports and one
medium model. The flow properties are computed from the upstream
quantities, pressures are equal in both nodes and the medium model if
use_portsData=false. Heat transfer through a thermal port is possible,
it equals zero if the port remains unconnected. A spherical shape is
assumed for the heat transfer area, with V=4/3*pi*r^3, A=4*pi*r^2. Ideal
heat transfer is assumed per default; the thermal port temperature is
equal to the medium temperature.

If use_portsData=true, the port pressures represent the pressures just
after the outlet (or just before the inlet) in the attached pipe. The
hydraulic resistances portsData.zeta_in and portsData.zeta_out determine
the dissipative pressure drop between volume and port depending on the
direction of mass flow. See VesselPortsData and [Idelchik, Handbook of
Hydraulic Resistance, 2004].

::

Extends from Modelica.Fluid.Vessels.BaseClasses.PartialLumpedVessel
(Lumped volume with a vector of fluid ports and replaceable heat
transfer model).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                      Name                         Default Descriptio
                                                                 n
  ------------------------- ---------------------------- ------- ----------
  replaceable package       PartialMedium                Medium  
  Medium                                                 in the  
                                                         compone 
                                                         nt      

  Volume                    fluidVolume                  V       Volume
                                                                 [m3]

  Volume                    V                                    Volume
                                                                 [m3]

  Ports                                                          

  Boolean                   use_portsData                true    = false to
                                                                 neglect
                                                                 pressure
                                                                 loss and
                                                                 kinetic
                                                                 energy

  VesselPortsData           portsData[nPorts]                    Data of
                                                                 inlet/outl
                                                                 et
                                                                 ports

  Assumptions                                                    

  Dynamics                                                       

  Dynamics                  energyDynamics               system. Formulatio
                                                         energyD n
                                                         ynamics of energy
                                                                 balance

  Dynamics                  massDynamics                 system. Formulatio
                                                         massDyn n
                                                         amics   of mass
                                                                 balance

  Heat transfer                                                  

  Boolean                   use_HeatTransfer             false   = true to
                                                                 use the
                                                                 HeatTransf
                                                                 er
                                                                 model

  replaceable model         IdealHeatTransfer            Wall    
  HeatTransfer                                           heat    
                                                         transfe 
                                                         r       

  Initialization                                                 

  AbsolutePressure          p_start                      system. Start
                                                         p_start value of
                                                                 pressure
                                                                 [Pa]

  Boolean                   use_T_start                  true    = true,
                                                                 use
                                                                 T_start,
                                                                 otherwise
                                                                 h_start

  Temperature               T_start                      if      Start
                                                         use_T_s value of
                                                         tart    temperatur
                                                         then    e
                                                         system. [K]
                                                         T...    

  SpecificEnthalpy          h_start                      if      Start
                                                         use_T_s value of
                                                         tart    specific
                                                         then    enthalpy
                                                         Medium. [J/kg]
                                                         s...    

  MassFraction              X_start[Medium.nX]           Medium. Start
                                                         X_defau value of
                                                         lt      mass
                                                                 fractions
                                                                 m_i/m
                                                                 [kg/kg]

  ExtraProperty             C_start[Medium.nC]           fill(0, Start
                                                         Medium. value of
                                                         nC)     trace
                                                                 substances

  Advanced                                                       

  Port properties                                                

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_small                 system. Regulariza
                                                         m_flow_ tion
                                                         small   range at
                                                                 zero mass
                                                                 flow rate
                                                                 [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name    Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------
  VesselFluidPorts_b                                   ports[n Fluid inlets
                                                       Ports]  and outlets

  HeatPort_a                                           heatPor 
                                                       t       
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model ClosedVolume 
      "Volume of fixed size, closed to the ambient, with inlet/outlet ports"
    import Modelica.Constants.pi;

      // Mass and energy balance, ports
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Vessels.BaseClasses.PartialLumpedVessel(
        final fluidVolume = V,
        vesselArea = pi*(3/4*V)^(2/3),
        heatTransfer(surfaceAreas={4*pi*(3/4*V/pi)^(2/3)}));

      parameter SI.Volume V "Volume";

    equation 
      Wb_flow = 0;
      for i in 1:nPorts loop
        vessel_ps_static[i] = medium.p;
      end for;

    end ClosedVolume;

* * * * *

[image7] Modelica.Fluid.Vessels.OpenTank
========================================

Simple tank with inlet/outlet ports

Information
-----------

::

Model of a tank that is open to the ambient at the fixed pressure
p_ambient.

The vector of connectors ports represents fluid ports at configurable
heights, relative to the bottom of tank. Fluid can flow either out of or
in to each port.

The following assumptions are made:

-   The tank is filled with a single or multiple-substance medium having
    a density higher than the density of the ambient medium.
-   The fluid has uniform density, temperature and mass fractions
-   No liquid is leaving the tank through the open top; the simulation
    breaks with an assertion if the liquid level growths over the
    height.

The port pressures represent the pressures just after the outlet (or
just before the inlet) in the attached pipe. The hydraulic resistances
portsData.zeta_in and portsData.zeta_out determine the dissipative
pressure drop between tank and port depending on the direction of mass
flow. See VesselPortsData and [Idelchik, Handbook of Hydraulic
Resistance, 2004].

With the setting use_portsData=false, the port pressure represents the
static head at the height of the respective port. The relationship
between pressure drop and mass flow rate at the port must then be
provided by connected components; Heights of ports as well as kinetic
and potential energy of fluid enering or leaving are not taken into
account anymore.

::

Extends from Modelica.Fluid.Vessels.BaseClasses.PartialLumpedVessel
(Lumped volume with a vector of fluid ports and replaceable heat
transfer model).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                      Name                         Default Descriptio
                                                                 n
  ------------------------- ---------------------------- ------- ----------
  Height                    height                               Height of
                                                                 tank [m]

  Area                      crossArea                            Area of
                                                                 tank [m2]

  replaceable package       PartialMedium                Medium  
  Medium                                                 in the  
                                                         compone 
                                                         nt      

  Volume                    fluidVolume                  V       Volume
                                                                 [m3]

  Ports                                                          

  Boolean                   use_portsData                true    = false to
                                                                 neglect
                                                                 pressure
                                                                 loss and
                                                                 kinetic
                                                                 energy

  VesselPortsData           portsData[nPorts]                    Data of
                                                                 inlet/outl
                                                                 et
                                                                 ports

  Assumptions                                                    

  Ambient                                                        

  AbsolutePressure          p_ambient                    system. Tank
                                                         p_ambie surface
                                                         nt      pressure
                                                                 [Pa]

  Temperature               T_ambient                    system. Tank
                                                         T_ambie surface
                                                         nt      Temperatur
                                                                 e
                                                                 [K]

  Dynamics                                                       

  Dynamics                  energyDynamics               system. Formulatio
                                                         energyD n
                                                         ynamics of energy
                                                                 balance

  Dynamics                  massDynamics                 system. Formulatio
                                                         massDyn n
                                                         amics   of mass
                                                                 balance

  Heat transfer                                                  

  Boolean                   use_HeatTransfer             false   = true to
                                                                 use the
                                                                 HeatTransf
                                                                 er
                                                                 model

  replaceable model         IdealHeatTransfer            Wall    
  HeatTransfer                                           heat    
                                                         transfe 
                                                         r       

  Initialization                                                 

  Height                    level_start                  0.5*hei Start
                                                         ght     value of
                                                                 tank level
                                                                 [m]

  AbsolutePressure          p_start                      p_ambie Start
                                                         nt      value of
                                                                 pressure
                                                                 [Pa]

  Boolean                   use_T_start                  true    = true,
                                                                 use
                                                                 T_start,
                                                                 otherwise
                                                                 h_start

  Temperature               T_start                      if      Start
                                                         use_T_s value of
                                                         tart    temperatur
                                                         then    e
                                                         system. [K]
                                                         T...    

  SpecificEnthalpy          h_start                      if      Start
                                                         use_T_s value of
                                                         tart    specific
                                                         then    enthalpy
                                                         Medium. [J/kg]
                                                         s...    

  MassFraction              X_start[Medium.nX]           Medium. Start
                                                         X_defau value of
                                                         lt      mass
                                                                 fractions
                                                                 m_i/m
                                                                 [kg/kg]

  ExtraProperty             C_start[Medium.nC]           fill(0, Start
                                                         Medium. value of
                                                         nC)     trace
                                                                 substances

  Advanced                                                       

  Port properties                                                

  MassFlowRate              m_flow_small                 system. Regulariza
                                                         m_flow_ tion
                                                         small   range at
                                                                 zero mass
                                                                 flow rate
                                                                 [kg/s]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Name    Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------
  VesselFluidPorts_b                                   ports[n Fluid inlets
                                                       Ports]  and outlets

  HeatPort_a                                           heatPor 
                                                       t       
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model OpenTank "Simple tank with inlet/outlet ports"
        import Modelica.Constants.pi;

      // Tank properties
      SI.Height level(stateSelect=StateSelect.prefer, start=max(level_start, Modelica.Constants.eps)) 
        "Level height of tank";
      SI.Volume V(stateSelect=StateSelect.never) "Actual tank volume";

      // Tank geometry
      parameter SI.Height height "Height of tank";
      parameter SI.Area crossArea "Area of tank";

      // Ambient
      parameter Medium.AbsolutePressure p_ambient=system.p_ambient 
        "Tank surface pressure";
      parameter Medium.Temperature T_ambient=system.T_ambient 
        "Tank surface Temperature";

      // Initialization
      parameter SI.Height level_start(min=0) = 0.5*height 
        "Start value of tank level";

      // Mass and energy balance, ports
      extends Modelica.Fluid.Vessels.BaseClasses.PartialLumpedVessel(
        final fluidVolume = V,
        final fluidLevel = level,
        final fluidLevel_max = height,
        final vesselArea = crossArea,
        heatTransfer(surfaceAreas={crossArea+2*sqrt(crossArea*pi)*level}),
        final initialize_p = false,
        final p_start = p_ambient);

    equation 
      // Total quantities
      V = crossArea*level "Volume of fluid";
      medium.p = p_ambient;

      // Source termsEnergy balance
      if Medium.singleState or energyDynamics == Types.Dynamics.SteadyState then
        Wb_flow = 0 
          "Mechanical work is neglected, since also neglected in medium model (otherwise unphysical small temperature change, if tank level changes)";
      else
        Wb_flow = -p_ambient*der(V);
      end if;

      //Determine port properties
      for i in 1:nPorts loop
        vessel_ps_static[i] = max(0, level - portsData_height[i])*system.g*medium.d + p_ambient;
      end for;

    initial equation 
      if massDynamics == Types.Dynamics.FixedInitial then
        level = level_start;
      elseif massDynamics == Types.Dynamics.SteadyStateInitial then
        der(level) = 0;
      end if;

    end OpenTank;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:12 2010.
