Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions



Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions
====================================

Conversion blocks to convert between SI and non-SI unit signals

Information
-----------

::

This package consists of blocks that convert an input signal with a
specific unit to an output signal in another unit (e.g., conversion of
an angle signal from "deg" to "rad"). Block "ConvertAllUnits" converts
between a set of units that can be selected in a pull-down menu of the
parameter menu. All other blocks convert exactly between two different
units.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                                 Description
  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------
  [image26] To_degC                                    Convert from Kelvin
                                                       to degCelsius

  [image27] From_degC                                  Convert from
                                                       degCelsius to
                                                       Kelvin

  [image28] To_degF                                    Convert from Kelvin
                                                       to degFahrenheit

  [image29] From_degF                                  Convert from
                                                       degFahrenheit to
                                                       Kelvin

  [image30] To_degRk                                   Convert from Kelvin
                                                       to degRankine

  [image31] From_degRk                                 Convert from
                                                       degRankine to
                                                       Kelvin

  [image32] To_deg                                     Convert from radian
                                                       to degree

  [image33] From_deg                                   Convert from degree
                                                       to radian

  [image34] To_rpm                                     Convert from radian
                                                       per second to
                                                       revolutions per
                                                       minute

  [image35] From_rpm                                   Convert from
                                                       revolutions per
                                                       minute to radian
                                                       per second

  [image36] To_kmh                                     Convert from metre
                                                       per second to
                                                       kilometre per hour

  [image37] From_kmh                                   Convert from
                                                       kilometre per hour
                                                       to metre per second

  [image38] To_day                                     Convert from second
                                                       to day

  [image39] From_day                                   Convert from day to
                                                       second

  [image40] To_hour                                    Convert from second
                                                       to hour

  [image41] From_hour                                  Convert from hour
                                                       to second

  [image42] To_minute                                  Convert from second
                                                       to minute

  [image43] From_minute                                Convert from minute
                                                       to second

  [image44] To_litre                                   Convert from cubic
                                                       metre to litre

  [image45] From_litre                                 Convert from litre
                                                       to cubic metre

  [image46] To_kWh                                     Convert from Joule
                                                       to kilo Watt hour

  [image47] From_kWh                                   Convert from kilo
                                                       Watt hour to Joule

  [image48] To_bar                                     Convert from Pascal
                                                       to bar

  [image49] From_bar                                   Convert from bar to
                                                       Pascal

  [image50] To_gps                                     Convert from
                                                       kilogram per second
                                                       to gram per second

  [image51] From_gps                                   Convert from gram
                                                       per second to
                                                       kilogram per second
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image52] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_degC
======================================================

Convert from Kelvin to degCelsius

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from Kelvin to degCelsius and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_degC "Convert from Kelvin to degCelsius"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="K"), y(
            unit="degC"));

    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_degC(u);
    end To_degC;

* * * * *

[image53] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_degC
========================================================

Convert from degCelsius to Kelvin

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from degCelsius to Kelvin and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_degC "Convert from degCelsius to Kelvin"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="degC"),
          y(unit="K"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_degC(u);
    end From_degC;

* * * * *

[image54] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_degF
======================================================

Convert from Kelvin to degFahrenheit

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from Kelvin to degFahrenheit and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_degF "Convert from Kelvin to degFahrenheit"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="K"), y(
            unit="degF"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_degF(u);
    end To_degF;

* * * * *

[image55] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_degF
========================================================

Convert from degFahrenheit to Kelvin

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from degFahrenheit to Kelvin and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_degF "Convert from degFahrenheit to Kelvin"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="degF"),
          y(unit="K"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_degF(u);
    end From_degF;

* * * * *

[image56] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_degRk
=======================================================

Convert from Kelvin to degRankine

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from Kelvin to degRankine and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_degRk "Convert from Kelvin to degRankine"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="K"), y(
            unit="degRk"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_degRk(u);
    end To_degRk;

* * * * *

[image57] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_degRk
=========================================================

Convert from degRankine to Kelvin

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from degRankine to Kelvin and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_degRk "Convert from degRankine to Kelvin"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="degRk"),
          y(unit="K"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_degRk(u);
    end From_degRk;

* * * * *

[image58] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_deg
=====================================================

Convert from radian to degree

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from radian to degree and returns
the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_deg "Convert from radian to degree"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="rad"),
          y(unit="deg"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_deg(u);
    end To_deg;

* * * * *

[image59] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_deg
=======================================================

Convert from degree to radian

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from degree to radian and returns
the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_deg "Convert from degree to radian"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="deg"),
          y(unit="rad"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_deg(u);
    end From_deg;

* * * * *

[image60] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_rpm
=====================================================

Convert from radian per second to revolutions per minute

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from radian per second to
revolutions per minute and returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_rpm 
      "Convert from radian per second to revolutions per minute"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="rad/s"),
          y(unit="1/min"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_rpm(u);
    end To_rpm;

* * * * *

[image61] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_rpm
=======================================================

Convert from revolutions per minute to radian per second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from revolutions per minute to
radian per second and returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_rpm 
      "Convert from revolutions per minute to radian per second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit=
              "1/min"), y(unit="rad/s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_rpm(u);
    end From_rpm;

* * * * *

[image62] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_kmh
=====================================================

Convert from metre per second to kilometre per hour

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from metre per second to kilometre
per hour and returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_kmh "Convert from metre per second to kilometre per hour"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="m/s"),
          y(unit="km/h"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_kmh(u);
    end To_kmh;

* * * * *

[image63] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_kmh
=======================================================

Convert from kilometre per hour to metre per second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from kilometre per hour to metre
per second and returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_kmh "Convert from kilometre per hour to metre per second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="km/h"),
          y(unit="m/s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_kmh(u);
    end From_kmh;

* * * * *

[image64] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_day
=====================================================

Convert from second to day

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from second to day and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_day "Convert from second to day"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="s"), y(
            unit="d"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_day(u);
    end To_day;

* * * * *

[image65] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_day
=======================================================

Convert from day to second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from day to second and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_day "Convert from day to second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="d"), y(
            unit="s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_day(u);
    end From_day;

* * * * *

[image66] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_hour
======================================================

Convert from second to hour

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from second to hour and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_hour "Convert from second to hour"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="s"), y(
            unit="h"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_hour(u);
    end To_hour;

* * * * *

[image67] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_hour
========================================================

Convert from hour to second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from hour to second and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_hour "Convert from hour to second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="h"), y(
            unit="s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_hour(u);
    end From_hour;

* * * * *

[image68] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_minute
========================================================

Convert from second to minute

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from second to minute and returns
the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_minute "Convert from second to minute"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="s"), y(
            unit="min"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_minute(u);
    end To_minute;

* * * * *

[image69] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_minute
==========================================================

Convert from minute to second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from minute to second and returns
the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_minute "Convert from minute to second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="min"),
          y(unit="s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_minute(u);
    end From_minute;

* * * * *

[image70] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_litre
=======================================================

Convert from cubic metre to litre

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from metre to litre and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_litre "Convert from cubic metre to litre"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="m3"), y(
            unit="l"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_litre(u);
    end To_litre;

* * * * *

[image71] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_litre
=========================================================

Convert from litre to cubic metre

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from litre to cubic metre and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_litre "Convert from litre to cubic metre"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="l"), y(
            unit="m3"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_litre(u);
    end From_litre;

* * * * *

[image72] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_kWh
=====================================================

Convert from Joule to kilo Watt hour

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from Joule to kilo Watt hour and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_kWh "Convert from Joule to kilo Watt hour"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="J"), y(
            unit="kW.h"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_kWh(u);
    end To_kWh;

* * * * *

[image73] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_kWh
=======================================================

Convert from kilo Watt hour to Joule

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from kilo Watt hour to Joule and
returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_kWh "Convert from kilo Watt hour to Joule"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="kW.h"),
          y(unit="J"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_kWh(u);
    end From_kWh;

* * * * *

[image74] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_bar
=====================================================

Convert from Pascal to bar

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from Pascal to bar and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_bar "Convert from Pascal to bar"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="Pa"), y(
            unit="bar"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_bar(u);
    end To_bar;

* * * * *

[image75] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_bar
=======================================================

Convert from bar to Pascal

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from bar to Pascal and returns the
result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_bar "Convert from bar to Pascal"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="bar"),
          y(unit="Pa"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_bar(u);
    end From_bar;

* * * * *

[image76] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.To_gps
=====================================================

Convert from kilogram per second to gram per second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from kilogram per second to gram
per seconds and returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block To_gps "Convert from kilogram per second to gram per second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="kg/s"),
          y(unit="g/s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.to_gps(u);
    end To_gps;

* * * * *

[image77] Modelica.Blocks.Math.UnitConversions.From_gps
=======================================================

Convert from gram per second to kilogram per second

Information
-----------

::

This block converts the input signal from gram per second to kilogram
per second and returns the result as output signal.

::

Extends from Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock (Partial
block defining the interface for conversion blocks).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    block From_gps "Convert from gram per second to kilogram per second"
      extends Modelica.Blocks.Interfaces.PartialConversionBlock(u(unit="g/s"),
          y(unit="kg/s"));
    equation 
      y = SI.Conversions.from_gps(u);
    end From_gps;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:27:39 2010.
