Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force



Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force
========================================

Flux tubes with reluctance force generation; constant permeability

Information
-----------

::

Please have a look at UsersGuide.ReluctanceForceCalculation for an
explanation of the different flux tube categories and resulting
sub-packages.

Flux tube elements with generation of a reluctance force are intended
for modelling of position-dependent air gap sections and permanent
magnet sections respectively of translatory actuators. By default, the
position co-ordinate of the mechanical connector flange.s is identical
with the dimension l of the package's flux tube elements. l is the
dimension changes with armature motion. If needed, the identity
l=flange.s can be replaced by an actuator-specific equation, for
example, when a flux tube length increases with decreasing armature
position. The position co-ordinate of an element's translatory connector
flange.s in turn will be identical with the armature position x in most
cases, as the examples illustrate.

The derivative of each element's permeance with respect to armature
position dGmBydx is calculated from the derivative of the flux tube's
permeance with respect to its varying dimension dGmBydl and the
derivative of this dimension with respect to armature position dlBydx:

    dG_m   dG_m   dl
    ---- = ---- * --
     dx     dl    dx

The parameter dlBydx must be set in each flux tube element to +1 or -1
according to the definition of the armature co-ordinate and the position
of the element in a device's magnetic circuit. Proper match between
armature motion and resulting variation of the flux tube length assures
that the element's reluctance force acts in the right direction.

The shapes of the flux tubes defined in this package are rather simple.
Only one dimenion varies with armature motion. Flux tubes with more
complex variations of dimensions with armature motion can be defined by
extending the base class Interfaces.PartialForce, if needed.
Determination of the analytic derivative dGmBydl could become more
complex for those flux tubes.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.VariantsPackage (Icon for package containing
variants).

Package Content
---------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                            Description
  ----------------------------------------------- ------------------------
  [image5] HollowCylinderAxialFlux                (Hollow) cylinder with
                                                  axial flux; constant
                                                  permeability

  [image6] HollowCylinderRadialFlux               Hollow cylinder with
                                                  radial flux; constant
                                                  permeability

  [image7] CuboidParallelFlux                     Cuboid with flux in
                                                  direction of motion,
                                                  e.g., air gap with
                                                  rectangular
                                                  cross-section; constant
                                                  permeability

  [image8] CuboidOrthogonalFlux                   Cuboid with flux
                                                  orthogonal to direction
                                                  of motion; constant
                                                  permeability

  [image9] LeakageAroundPoles                     Leakage flux tube around
                                                  cylindrical or prismatic
                                                  poles
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

[image10] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force.HollowCylinderAxialFlux
==========================================================================

(Hollow) cylinder with axial flux; constant permeability

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Force for a description of all
elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce (Base
class for flux tubes with reluctance force generation; constant
permeability).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                           Name  Defa Description
                                       ult  
  ------------------------------ ----- ---- ---------------------------------
  Boolean                        useSu fals = true, if support flange
                                 pport e    enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  RelativePermeability           mu_r       Relative magnetic permeability
                                            [1]

  Integer                        dlByd 1    Derivative of flux tube's varying
                                 x          dimension with respect to
                                            armature position; set to +1 or
                                            -1

  Radius                         r_i        Inner radius of (hollow) cylinder
                                            [m]

  Radius                         r_o        Outer radius of (hollow) cylinder
                                            [m]

  Variable geometry                         

  Length                         l     s    Axial length (in direction of
                                            flux) [m]

  [image12]                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  PositiveMagneticPort                             port Positive magnetic
                                                   _p   port

  NegativeMagneticPort                             port Negative magnetic
                                                   _n   port

  Flange_b                                         flan Generated
                                                   ge   reluctance force
                                                        at armature
                                                        position

  Support                                          supp Support/housing of
                                                   ort  component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model HollowCylinderAxialFlux 
      "(Hollow) cylinder with axial flux; constant permeability"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce;

      SI.Length l = s "Axial length (in direction of flux)";
      parameter SI.Radius r_i( start = 0) "Inner radius of (hollow) cylinder";
      parameter SI.Radius r_o( start = 0.01) "Outer radius of (hollow) cylinder";

      SI.MagneticFluxDensity B "Homogeneous flux density";

    protected 
      parameter SI.Area A = pi*(r_o^2 - r_i^2) 
        "Cross-sectional area orthogonal to direction of flux";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0*mu_r * A /l;

      dGmBydx = -1 * mu_0*mu_r * A /l^2 * dlBydx;

      B = Phi/A;

    end HollowCylinderAxialFlux;

* * * * *

[image13] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force.HollowCylinderRadialFlux
===========================================================================

Hollow cylinder with radial flux; constant permeability

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Force for a description of all
elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce (Base
class for flux tubes with reluctance force generation; constant
permeability).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                           Name  Defa Description
                                       ult  
  ------------------------------ ----- ---- ---------------------------------
  Boolean                        useSu fals = true, if support flange
                                 pport e    enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  RelativePermeability           mu_r       Relative magnetic permeability
                                            [1]

  Integer                        dlByd 1    Derivative of flux tube's varying
                                 x          dimension with respect to
                                            armature position; set to +1 or
                                            -1

  Radius                         r_i        Inner radius of hollow cylinder
                                            [m]

  Radius                         r_o        Outer radius of hollow cylinder
                                            [m]

  Variable geometry                         

  Length                         l     s    Axial length (orthogonal to
                                            direction of flux) [m]

  [image15]                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  PositiveMagneticPort                             port Positive magnetic
                                                   _p   port

  NegativeMagneticPort                             port Negative magnetic
                                                   _n   port

  Flange_b                                         flan Generated
                                                   ge   reluctance force
                                                        at armature
                                                        position

  Support                                          supp Support/housing of
                                                   ort  component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model HollowCylinderRadialFlux 
      "Hollow cylinder with radial flux; constant permeability"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce;

      SI.Length l = s "Axial length (orthogonal to direction of flux)";
      parameter SI.Radius r_i( start = 0.01) "Inner radius of hollow cylinder";
      parameter SI.Radius r_o( start = 0.015) "Outer radius of hollow cylinder";

      SI.MagneticFluxDensity B_avg 
        "Average flux density (at arithmetic mean radius)";

    protected 
      SI.Area A_avg 
        "Average cross-sectional area orthogonal to direction of flux (at arithmetic mean radius)";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0*mu_r * 2 * pi * l /Modelica.Math.log(r_o/r_i);

      dGmBydx = mu_0*mu_r * 2 * pi/Modelica.Math.log(r_o/r_i) * dlBydx;

      A_avg = pi*(r_i + r_o) * l;
      B_avg = Phi/A_avg;

    end HollowCylinderRadialFlux;

* * * * *

[image16] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force.CuboidParallelFlux
=====================================================================

Cuboid with flux in direction of motion, e.g., air gap with rectangular
cross-section; constant permeability

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Force for a description of all
elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce (Base
class for flux tubes with reluctance force generation; constant
permeability).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                           Name  Defa Description
                                       ult  
  ------------------------------ ----- ---- ---------------------------------
  Boolean                        useSu fals = true, if support flange
                                 pport e    enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  RelativePermeability           mu_r       Relative magnetic permeability
                                            [1]

  Integer                        dlByd 1    Derivative of flux tube's varying
                                 x          dimension with respect to
                                            armature position; set to +1 or
                                            -1

  Length                         a          Width of rectangular
                                            cross-section [m]

  Length                         b          Height of rectangular
                                            cross-section [m]

  Variable geometry                         

  Length                         l     s    Axial length (in direction of
                                            flux) [m]

  [image18]                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  PositiveMagneticPort                             port Positive magnetic
                                                   _p   port

  NegativeMagneticPort                             port Negative magnetic
                                                   _n   port

  Flange_b                                         flan Generated
                                                   ge   reluctance force
                                                        at armature
                                                        position

  Support                                          supp Support/housing of
                                                   ort  component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model CuboidParallelFlux 
      "Cuboid with flux in direction of motion, e.g., air gap with rectangular cross-section; constant permeability"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce;

      SI.Length l = s "Axial length (in direction of flux)";
      parameter SI.Length a( start = 0.01) "Width of rectangular cross-section";
      parameter SI.Length b( start = 0.01) "Height of rectangular cross-section";

      SI.MagneticFluxDensity B "Homogeneous flux density";

    protected 
      parameter SI.Area A = a*b 
        "Cross-sectional area orthogonal to direction of flux";

    equation 
      G_m = mu_0*mu_r * A /l;

      dGmBydx = -1 * mu_0*mu_r * A /l^2 * dlBydx;

      B = Phi/A;

    end CuboidParallelFlux;

* * * * *

[image19] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force.CuboidOrthogonalFlux
=======================================================================

Cuboid with flux orthogonal to direction of motion; constant
permeability

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the enclosing sub-package Force for a description of all
elements of this package and to [Ro41] for derivation and/or
coefficients of the equation for permeance G_m.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce (Base
class for flux tubes with reluctance force generation; constant
permeability).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                           Name  Defa Description
                                       ult  
  ------------------------------ ----- ---- ---------------------------------
  Boolean                        useSu fals = true, if support flange
                                 pport e    enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  RelativePermeability           mu_r       Relative magnetic permeability
                                            [1]

  Integer                        dlByd 1    Derivative of flux tube's varying
                                 x          dimension with respect to
                                            armature position; set to +1 or
                                            -1

  Length                         a          Width of rectangular
                                            cross-section [m]

  Length                         b          Height of rectangular
                                            cross-section (in flux direction)
                                            [m]

  Variable geometry                         

  Length                         l     s    Length in direction of motion
                                            (orthogonal to flux) [m]

  [image21]                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  PositiveMagneticPort                             port Positive magnetic
                                                   _p   port

  NegativeMagneticPort                             port Negative magnetic
                                                   _n   port

  Flange_b                                         flan Generated
                                                   ge   reluctance force
                                                        at armature
                                                        position

  Support                                          supp Support/housing of
                                                   ort  component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model CuboidOrthogonalFlux 
      "Cuboid with flux orthogonal to direction of motion; constant permeability"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce;

      SI.Length l = s "Length in direction of motion (orthogonal to flux)";
      parameter SI.Length a( start = 0.01) "Width of rectangular cross-section";
      parameter SI.Length b( start = 0.01) 
        "Height of rectangular cross-section (in flux direction)";

      SI.MagneticFluxDensity B "Homogeneous flux density";

    protected 
      SI.Area A "Cross-sectional area orthogonal to direction of flux";

    equation 
      A = a*l;
      G_m = mu_0*mu_r * A /b;

      dGmBydx = mu_0*mu_r * a /b * dlBydx;

      B = Phi/A;

    end CuboidOrthogonalFlux;

* * * * *

[image22] Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Shapes.Force.LeakageAroundPoles
=====================================================================

Leakage flux tube around cylindrical or prismatic poles

Information
-----------

::

Please refer to the description of the enclosing sub-package Force for a
description of all elements of this package.

Leakage flux around a prismatic or cylindric air gap between to poles
can be described with this model. Due to its constant radius of the
leakage field r, the model is rather simple. Whereas in reality the
leakage radius is approximately constant for air gap lengths l greater
than this radius, it decreases with air gap lengths less than the
leakage radius. This decrease for small air gaps is neglected here,
since the influence of the leakage flux tube compared to that of the
enclosed main air gap (connected in parallel) decreases for decreasing
air gap length l.

Note that in [Ka08] the equation for G_m is accidentally swapped with
that of a similar element.

::

Extends from Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce (Base
class for flux tubes with reluctance force generation; constant
permeability).

Parameters
----------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                           Name  Defa Description
                                       ult  
  ------------------------------ ----- ---- ---------------------------------
  Boolean                        useSu fals = true, if support flange
                                 pport e    enabled, otherwise implicitly
                                            grounded

  RelativePermeability           mu_r       Relative magnetic permeability
                                            [1]

  Integer                        dlByd 1    Derivative of flux tube's varying
                                 x          dimension with respect to
                                            armature position; set to +1 or
                                            -1

  Length                         w          Width orthogonal to flux; mean
                                            circumference of flux tube in
                                            case of cylindrical poles [m]

  Radius                         r          Radius of leakage field [m]

  Variable geometry                         

  Length                         l     s    Axial length (in direction of
                                            flux) [m]

  [image24]                                 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Connectors
----------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  PositiveMagneticPort                             port Positive magnetic
                                                   _p   port

  NegativeMagneticPort                             port Negative magnetic
                                                   _n   port

  Flange_b                                         flan Generated
                                                   ge   reluctance force
                                                        at armature
                                                        position

  Support                                          supp Support/housing of
                                                   ort  component
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    model LeakageAroundPoles 
      "Leakage flux tube around cylindrical or prismatic poles"

      extends Modelica.Magnetic.FluxTubes.Interfaces.PartialForce;
      SI.Length l = s "Axial length (in direction of flux)";

      parameter SI.Length w( start = 0.1) 
        "Width orthogonal to flux; mean circumference of flux tube in case of cylindrical poles";
      parameter SI.Radius r( start = 0.01) "Radius of leakage field";

    equation 
      //adapted from [Ka08], but corrected
      //(in [Ka08] equation accidentally swapped with that of a similar element)
      G_m = mu_0 * w /pi * Modelica.Math.log(1 + pi * r/l);

      //derivative at full length:
      //  dGmBydx = mu_0 * w /pi * 1/(1 + pi * r/l) * (-1)*pi*r/l^2  * dlBydx;
      //simplified:
      dGmBydx = - mu_0 * w * r * dlBydx / (l^2 *(1 + pi * r/l));

    end LeakageAroundPoles;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:29:51 2010.
