Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion



Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion
==========================================

Water: Steam properties as defined by IAPWS/IF97 standard

Information
-----------

::

This model calculates medium properties for water in the liquid, gas and
two phase regions according to the IAPWS/IF97 standard, i.e., the
accepted industrial standard and best compromise between accuracy and
computation time. For more details see
Modelica.Media.Water.IF97_Utilities. Three variable pairs can be the
independent variables of the model:

1.  Pressure p and specific enthalpy h are the most natural choice for
    general applications. This is the recommended choice for most
    general purpose applications, in particular for power plants.
2.  Pressure p and temperature T are the most natural choice for
    applications where water is always in the same phase, both for
    liquid water and steam.
3.  Density d and temperature T are explicit variables of the Helmholtz
    function in the near-critical region and can be the best choice for
    applications with super-critical or near-critial states.

The following quantities are always computed:

  ----------------- ------------- -----------------------------
  Variable          Unit          Description
  T                 K             temperature
  u                 J/kg          specific internal energy
  d                 kg/m^3        density
  p                 Pa            pressure
  h                 J/kg          specific enthalpy
  ----------------- ------------- -----------------------------

In some cases additional medium properties are needed. A component that
needs these optional properties has to call one of the functions listed
in Modelica.Media.UsersGuide.MediumUsage.OptionalProperties and in
Modelica.Media.UsersGuide.MediumUsage.TwoPhase.

Many further properties can be computed. Using the well-known Bridgman's
Tables, all first partial derivatives of the standard thermodynamic
variables can be computed easily.

::

Extends from Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium (Base class for two phase
medium of one substance).

Package Content
---------------

Name

Description

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.ThermodynamicState]
ThermodynamicState

thermodynamic state

Region

region of IF97, if known

ph_explicit

true if explicit in pressure and specific enthalpy

dT_explicit

true if explicit in density and temperature

pT_explicit

true if explicit in pressure and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.BaseProperties]
BaseProperties

Base properties of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_ph] density_ph

Computes density as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.temperature_ph]
temperature_ph

Computes temperature as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.temperature_ps]
temperature_ps

Compute temperature from pressure and specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_ps] density_ps

Computes density as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.pressure_dT] pressure_dT

Computes pressure as a function of density and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy_dT]
specificEnthalpy_dT

Computes specific enthalpy as a function of density and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy_pT]
specificEnthalpy_pT

Computes specific enthalpy as a function of pressure and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy_ps]
specificEnthalpy_ps

Computes specific enthalpy as a function of pressure and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_pT] density_pT

Computes density as a function of pressure and temperature

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setDewState] setDewState

set the thermodynamic state on the dew line

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setBubbleState]
setBubbleState

set the thermodynamic state on the bubble line

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dynamicViscosity]
dynamicViscosity

Dynamic viscosity of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.thermalConductivity]
thermalConductivity

Thermal conductivity of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.surfaceTension]
surfaceTension

Surface tension in two phase region of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.pressure] pressure

return pressure of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.temperature] temperature

return temperature of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density] density

return density of ideal gas

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy]
specificEnthalpy

Return specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificInternalEnergy]
specificInternalEnergy

Return specific internal energy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificGibbsEnergy]
specificGibbsEnergy

Return specific Gibbs energy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificHelmholtzEnergy]
specificHelmholtzEnergy

Return specific Helmholtz energy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEntropy]
specificEntropy

specific entropy of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificHeatCapacityCp]
specificHeatCapacityCp

specific heat capacity at constant pressure of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificHeatCapacityCv]
specificHeatCapacityCv

specific heat capacity at constant volume of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isentropicExponent]
isentropicExponent

Return isentropic exponent

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isothermalCompressibility]
isothermalCompressibility

Isothermal compressibility of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isobaricExpansionCoefficient]
isobaricExpansionCoefficient

isobaric expansion coefficient of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.velocityOfSound]
velocityOfSound

Return velocity of sound as a function of the thermodynamic state record

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isentropicEnthalpy]
isentropicEnthalpy

compute h(s,p)

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_derh_p]
density_derh_p

density derivative by specific enthalpy

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_derp_h]
density_derp_h

density derivative by pressure

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.bubbleEnthalpy]
bubbleEnthalpy

boiling curve specific enthalpy of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dewEnthalpy] dewEnthalpy

dew curve specific enthalpy of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.bubbleEntropy] bubbleEntropy

boiling curve specific entropy of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dewEntropy] dewEntropy

dew curve specific entropy of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.bubbleDensity] bubbleDensity

boiling curve specific density of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dewDensity] dewDensity

dew curve specific density of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.saturationTemperature]
saturationTemperature

saturation temperature of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.saturationTemperature_derp]
saturationTemperature_derp

derivative of saturation temperature w.r.t. pressure

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.saturationPressure]
saturationPressure

saturation pressure of water

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dBubbleDensity_dPressure]
dBubbleDensity_dPressure

bubble point density derivative

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dDewDensity_dPressure]
dDewDensity_dPressure

dew point density derivative

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dBubbleEnthalpy_dPressure]
dBubbleEnthalpy_dPressure

bubble point specific enthalpy derivative

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dDewEnthalpy_dPressure]
dDewEnthalpy_dPressure

dew point specific enthalpy derivative

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_dTX] setState_dTX

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of d, T, and optional
region

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_phX] setState_phX

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, h, and optional
region

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_psX] setState_psX

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, s, and optional
region

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_pTX] setState_pTX

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, T, and optional
region

[Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setSmoothState]
setSmoothState

Return thermodynamic state so that it smoothly approximates: if x > 0
then state_a else state_b

Inherited

smoothModel

true if the (derived) model should not generate state events

onePhase

true if the (derived) model should never be called with two-phase inputs

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.FluidLimits]
FluidLimits

validity limits for fluid model

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.FluidConstants]
FluidConstants

extended fluid constants

fluidConstants

constant data for the fluid

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.SaturationProperties]
SaturationProperties

Saturation properties of two phase medium

FixedPhase

phase of the fluid: 1 for 1-phase, 2 for two-phase, 0 for not known,
e.g., interactive use

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setSat_T] setSat_T

Return saturation property record from temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setSat_p] setSat_p

Return saturation property record from pressure

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.saturationPressure_sat]
saturationPressure_sat

Return saturation temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.saturationTemperature_sat]
saturationTemperature_sat

Return saturation temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.saturationTemperature_derp_sat]
saturationTemperature_derp_sat

Return derivative of saturation temperature w.r.t. pressure

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.molarMass] molarMass

Return the molar mass of the medium

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.specificEnthalpy_pTX]
specificEnthalpy_pTX

Return specific enthalpy from pressure, temperature and mass fraction

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.temperature_phX]
temperature_phX

Return temperature from p, h, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.density_phX]
density_phX

Return density from p, h, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.temperature_psX]
temperature_psX

Return temperature from p, s, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.density_psX]
density_psX

Return density from p, s, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.specificEnthalpy_psX]
specificEnthalpy_psX

Return specific enthalpy from p, s, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setState_pT]
setState_pT

Return thermodynamic state from p and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setState_ph]
setState_ph

Return thermodynamic state from p and h

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setState_ps]
setState_ps

Return thermodynamic state from p and s

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setState_dT]
setState_dT

Return thermodynamic state from d and T

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setState_px]
setState_px

Return thermodynamic state from pressure and vapour quality

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.setState_Tx]
setState_Tx

Return thermodynamic state from temperature and vapour quality

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialTwoPhaseMedium.vapourQuality]
vapourQuality

Return vapour quality

ThermoStates

Enumeration type for independent variables

mediumName="unusablePartialMedium"

Name of the medium

substanceNames={mediumName}

Names of the mixture substances. Set substanceNames={mediumName} if only
one substance.

extraPropertiesNames=fill("", 0)

Names of the additional (extra) transported properties. Set
extraPropertiesNames=fill("",0) if unused

singleState

= true, if u and d are not a function of pressure

reducedX=true

= true if medium contains the equation sum(X) = 1.0; set reducedX=true
if only one substance (see docu for details)

fixedX=false

= true if medium contains the equation X = reference_X

reference_p=101325

Reference pressure of Medium: default 1 atmosphere

reference_T=298.15

Reference temperature of Medium: default 25 deg Celsius

reference_X=fill(1/nX, nX)

Default mass fractions of medium

p_default=101325

Default value for pressure of medium (for initialization)

T_default=Modelica.SIunits.Conversions.from_degC(20)

Default value for temperature of medium (for initialization)

h_default=specificEnthalpy_pTX(p_default, T_default, X_default)

Default value for specific enthalpy of medium (for initialization)

X_default=reference_X

Default value for mass fractions of medium (for initialization)

nS=size(substanceNames, 1)

Number of substances

nX=nS

Number of mass fractions

nXi=if fixedX then 0 else if reducedX then nS - 1 else nS

Number of structurally independent mass fractions (see docu for details)

nC=size(extraPropertiesNames, 1)

Number of extra (outside of standard mass-balance) transported
properties

C_nominal=1.0e-6*ones(nC)

Default for the nominal values for the extra properties

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.prandtlNumber] prandtlNumber

Return the Prandtl number

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.heatCapacity_cp]
heatCapacity_cp

alias for deprecated name

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.heatCapacity_cv]
heatCapacity_cv

alias for deprecated name

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.beta] beta

alias for isobaricExpansionCoefficient for user convenience

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.kappa] kappa

alias of isothermalCompressibility for user convenience

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_derp_T] density_derp_T

Return density derivative w.r.t. pressure at const temperature

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_derT_p] density_derT_p

Return density derivative w.r.t. temperature at constant pressure

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_derX] density_derX

Return density derivative w.r.t. mass fraction

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.specificEntropy_pTX]
specificEntropy_pTX

Return specific enthalpy from p, T, and X or Xi

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.density_pTX] density_pTX

Return density from p, T, and X or Xi

AbsolutePressure

Type for absolute pressure with medium specific attributes

Density

Type for density with medium specific attributes

DynamicViscosity

Type for dynamic viscosity with medium specific attributes

EnthalpyFlowRate

Type for enthalpy flow rate with medium specific attributes

MassFlowRate

Type for mass flow rate with medium specific attributes

MassFraction

Type for mass fraction with medium specific attributes

MoleFraction

Type for mole fraction with medium specific attributes

MolarMass

Type for molar mass with medium specific attributes

MolarVolume

Type for molar volume with medium specific attributes

IsentropicExponent

Type for isentropic exponent with medium specific attributes

SpecificEnergy

Type for specific energy with medium specific attributes

SpecificInternalEnergy

Type for specific internal energy with medium specific attributes

SpecificEnthalpy

Type for specific enthalpy with medium specific attributes

SpecificEntropy

Type for specific entropy with medium specific attributes

SpecificHeatCapacity

Type for specific heat capacity with medium specific attributes

SurfaceTension

Type for surface tension with medium specific attributes

Temperature

Type for temperature with medium specific attributes

ThermalConductivity

Type for thermal conductivity with medium specific attributes

PrandtlNumber

Type for Prandtl number with medium specific attributes

VelocityOfSound

Type for velocity of sound with medium specific attributes

ExtraProperty

Type for unspecified, mass-specific property transported by flow

CumulativeExtraProperty

Type for conserved integral of unspecified, mass specific property

ExtraPropertyFlowRate

Type for flow rate of unspecified, mass-specific property

IsobaricExpansionCoefficient

Type for isobaric expansion coefficient with medium specific attributes

DipoleMoment

Type for dipole moment with medium specific attributes

DerDensityByPressure

Type for partial derivative of density with resect to pressure with
medium specific attributes

DerDensityByEnthalpy

Type for partial derivative of density with resect to enthalpy with
medium specific attributes

DerEnthalpyByPressure

Type for partial derivative of enthalpy with resect to pressure with
medium specific attributes

DerDensityByTemperature

Type for partial derivative of density with resect to temperature with
medium specific attributes

[Modelica.Media.Interfaces.PartialMedium.Choices] Choices

Types, constants to define menu choices

Types and constants
-------------------

    constant Integer Region "region of IF97, if known";

    constant Boolean ph_explicit 
    "true if explicit in pressure and specific enthalpy";

    constant Boolean dT_explicit "true if explicit in density and temperature";

    constant Boolean pT_explicit "true if explicit in pressure and temperature";

* * * * *

[image84] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.ThermodynamicState
=======================================================================

thermodynamic state

Information
-----------

Extends from (Thermodynamic state of two phase medium).

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare record extends ThermodynamicState "thermodynamic state"
      SpecificEnthalpy h "specific enthalpy";
      Density d "density";
      Temperature T "temperature";
      AbsolutePressure p "pressure";
    end ThermodynamicState;

* * * * *

[image85] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.BaseProperties
===================================================================

Base properties of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Base properties (p, d, T, h, u, R, MM, sat) of two phase
medium).

Parameters
----------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type    Name         Defau Description
                       lt    
  ------- ------------ ----- ----------------------------------------------
  Advance                    
  d                          

  Boolean preferredMed false = true if StateSelect.prefer shall be used for
          iumStates          the independent property variables of the
                             medium
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare replaceable model extends BaseProperties(
      h(stateSelect=if ph_explicit then StateSelect.prefer else StateSelect.default),
      d(stateSelect=if dT_explicit then StateSelect.prefer else StateSelect.default),
      T(stateSelect=if (pT_explicit or dT_explicit) then StateSelect.prefer else StateSelect.default),
      p(stateSelect=if (pT_explicit or ph_explicit) then StateSelect.prefer else StateSelect.default)) 
      "Base properties of water"
      Integer phase(min=0, max=2) 
        "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      SaturationProperties sat(Tsat(start=300.0), psat(start=1.0e5)) 
        "saturation temperature and pressure";
    equation 
      MM = fluidConstants[1].molarMass;
      if smoothModel then
        if onePhase then
          phase = 1;
          if ph_explicit then
            assert(((h < bubbleEnthalpy(sat) or h > dewEnthalpy(sat)) or p >
              fluidConstants[1].criticalPressure),
              "With onePhase=true this model may only be called with one-phase states h < hl or h > hv!");
          else
            assert(not ((d < bubbleDensity(sat) and d > dewDensity(sat)) and T <
              fluidConstants[1].criticalTemperature),
              "With onePhase=true this model may only be called with one-phase states d > dl or d < dv!");
          end if;
        else
          phase = 0;
        end if;
      else
        if ph_explicit then
          phase = if ((h < bubbleEnthalpy(sat) or h > dewEnthalpy(sat)) or p >
            fluidConstants[1].criticalPressure) then 1 else 2;
        elseif dT_explicit then
          phase = if not ((d < bubbleDensity(sat) and d > dewDensity(sat)) and T
             < fluidConstants[1].criticalTemperature) then 1 else 2;
        else
          phase = 1;
          //this is for the one-phase only case pT
        end if;
      end if;
      if dT_explicit then
        p = pressure_dT(d, T, phase, Region);
        h = specificEnthalpy_dT(d, T, phase, Region);
        sat.Tsat = T;
        sat.psat = saturationPressure(T);
      elseif ph_explicit then
        d = density_ph(p, h, phase, Region);
        T = temperature_ph(p, h, phase, Region);
        sat.Tsat = saturationTemperature(p);
        sat.psat = p;
      else
        h = specificEnthalpy_pT(p, T, Region);
        d = density_pT(p, T, Region);
        sat.psat = p;
        sat.Tsat = saturationTemperature(p);
      end if;
      u = h - p/d;
      R = Modelica.Constants.R/fluidConstants[1].molarMass;
      h = state.h;
      p = state.p;
      T = state.T;
      d = state.d;
      phase = state.phase;
    end BaseProperties;

* * * * *

[image86] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_ph
===============================================================

Computes density as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEnthalpy                             h        Specific enthalpy
                                                        [J/kg]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                     Name Descriptio
                                                                n
  -------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----------
  Density                                                  d    Density
                                                                [kg/m3]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function density_ph 
      "Computes density as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input SpecificEnthalpy h "Specific enthalpy";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output Density d "Density";
    algorithm 
      d := IF97_Utilities.rho_ph(p, h, phase, region);
    end density_ph;

* * * * *

[image87] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.temperature_ph
===================================================================

Computes temperature as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEnthalpy                             h        Specific enthalpy
                                                        [J/kg]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                      Name Descripti
                                                                 on
  --------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---------
  Temperature                                               T    Temperatu
                                                                 re
                                                                 [K]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function temperature_ph 
      "Computes temperature as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input SpecificEnthalpy h "Specific enthalpy";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output Temperature T "Temperature";
    algorithm 
      T := IF97_Utilities.T_ph(p, h, phase, region);
    end temperature_ph;

* * * * *

[image88] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.temperature_ps
===================================================================

Compute temperature from pressure and specific enthalpy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEntropy                              s        Specific entropy
                                                        [J/(kg.K)]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                      Name Descripti
                                                                 on
  --------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---------
  Temperature                                               T    Temperatu
                                                                 re
                                                                 [K]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function temperature_ps 
      "Compute temperature from pressure and specific enthalpy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input SpecificEntropy s "Specific entropy";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output Temperature T "Temperature";
    algorithm 
      T := IF97_Utilities.T_ps(p, s, phase,region);
    end temperature_ps;

* * * * *

[image89] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_ps
===============================================================

Computes density as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEntropy                              s        Specific entropy
                                                        [J/(kg.K)]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                     Name Descriptio
                                                                n
  -------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----------
  Density                                                  d    density
                                                                [kg/m3]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function density_ps 
      "Computes density as a function of pressure and specific enthalpy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input SpecificEntropy s "Specific entropy";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output Density d "density";
    algorithm 
      d := IF97_Utilities.rho_ps(p, s, phase, region);
    end density_ps;

* * * * *

[image90] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.pressure_dT
================================================================

Computes pressure as a function of density and temperature

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  Density                                      d        Density [kg/m3]

  Temperature                                  T        Temperature [K]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                        Name Descript
                                                                   ion
  ----------------------------------------------------------- ---- --------
  AbsolutePressure                                            p    Pressure
                                                                   [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function pressure_dT 
      "Computes pressure as a function of density and temperature"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input Density d "Density";
      input Temperature T "Temperature";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
    algorithm 
      p := IF97_Utilities.p_dT(d, T, phase, region);
    end pressure_dT;

* * * * *

[image91] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy_dT
========================================================================

Computes specific enthalpy as a function of density and temperature

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  Density                                      d        Density [kg/m3]

  Temperature                                  T        Temperature [K]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                                        h   specific
                                                              enthalpy
                                                              [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function specificEnthalpy_dT 
      "Computes specific enthalpy as a function of density and temperature"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input Density d "Density";
      input Temperature T "Temperature";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output SpecificEnthalpy h "specific enthalpy";
    algorithm 
      h := IF97_Utilities.h_dT(d, T, phase, region);
    end specificEnthalpy_dT;

* * * * *

[image92] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy_pT
========================================================================

Computes specific enthalpy as a function of pressure and temperature

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  Temperature                                  T        Temperature [K]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                                        h   specific
                                                              enthalpy
                                                              [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function specificEnthalpy_pT 
      "Computes specific enthalpy as a function of pressure and temperature"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input Temperature T "Temperature";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output SpecificEnthalpy h "specific enthalpy";
    algorithm 
      h := IF97_Utilities.h_pT(p, T, region);
    end specificEnthalpy_pT;

* * * * *

[image93] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy_ps
========================================================================

Computes specific enthalpy as a function of pressure and temperature

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEntropy                              s        Specific entropy
                                                        [J/(kg.K)]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                                        h   specific
                                                              enthalpy
                                                              [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function specificEnthalpy_ps 
      "Computes specific enthalpy as a function of pressure and temperature"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input SpecificEntropy s "Specific entropy";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output SpecificEnthalpy h "specific enthalpy";
    algorithm 
      h := IF97_Utilities.h_ps(p, s, phase, region);
    end specificEnthalpy_ps;

* * * * *

[image94] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_pT
===============================================================

Computes density as a function of pressure and temperature

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Defa Description
                                               e   ult  
  -------------------------------------------- --- ---- --------------------
  AbsolutePressure                             p        Pressure [Pa]

  Temperature                                  T        Temperature [K]

  FixedPhase                                   pha 0    2 for two-phase, 1
                                               se       for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Integer                                      reg 0    if 0, region is
                                               ion      unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this input
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                     Name Descriptio
                                                                n
  -------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----------
  Density                                                  d    Density
                                                                [kg/m3]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function density_pT 
      "Computes density as a function of pressure and temperature"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
      input AbsolutePressure p "Pressure";
      input Temperature T "Temperature";
      input FixedPhase phase=0 "2 for two-phase, 1 for one-phase, 0 if not known";
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
      output Density d "Density";
    algorithm 
      d := IF97_Utilities.rho_pT(p, T, region);
    end density_pT;

* * * * *

[image95] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setDewState
================================================================

set the thermodynamic state on the dew line

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return the thermodynamic state on the dew line).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Description
                                                        e   ult  
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- -----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 point

  FixedPhase                                            pha 1    phase:
                                                        se       default is
                                                                 one phase
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Nam Description
                                                         e   
  ------------------------------------------------------ --- -------------
  ThermodynamicState                                     sta complete
                                                         te  thermodynamic
                                                             state info
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setDewState 
      "set the thermodynamic state on the dew line"
    algorithm 
      state.phase := phase;
      state.p := sat.psat;
      state.T := sat.Tsat;
      state.h := dewEnthalpy(sat);
      state.d := dewDensity(sat);
    end setDewState;

* * * * *

[image96] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setBubbleState
===================================================================

set the thermodynamic state on the bubble line

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return the thermodynamic state on the bubble line).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Description
                                                        e   ult  
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- -----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 point

  FixedPhase                                            pha 1    phase:
                                                        se       default is
                                                                 one phase
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Nam Description
                                                         e   
  ------------------------------------------------------ --- -------------
  ThermodynamicState                                     sta complete
                                                         te  thermodynamic
                                                             state info
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setBubbleState 
      "set the thermodynamic state on the bubble line"
    algorithm 
      state.phase := phase;
      state.p := sat.psat;
      state.T := sat.Tsat;
      state.h := bubbleEnthalpy(sat);
      state.d := bubbleDensity(sat);
    end setBubbleState;

* * * * *

[image97] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dynamicViscosity
=====================================================================

Dynamic viscosity of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return dynamic viscosity).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  DynamicViscosity                                        eta Dynamic
                                                              viscosity
                                                              [Pa.s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dynamicViscosity 
      "Dynamic viscosity of water"
    algorithm 
      eta := IF97_Utilities.dynamicViscosity(state.d, state.T, state.p, state.
        phase);
    end dynamicViscosity;

* * * * *

[image98] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.thermalConductivity
========================================================================

Thermal conductivity of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return thermal conductivity).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Name Description
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---- --------------
  ThermalConductivity                                   lamb Thermal
                                                        da   conductivity
                                                             [W/(m.K)]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends thermalConductivity 
      "Thermal conductivity of water"
    algorithm 
      lambda := IF97_Utilities.thermalConductivity(state.d, state.T, state.p,
        state.phase);
    end thermalConductivity;

* * * * *

[image99] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.surfaceTension
===================================================================

Surface tension in two phase region of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return surface tension sigma in the two phase region).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                           Nam Description
                                                 e   
  ---------------------------------------------- --- ---------------------
  SurfaceTension                                 sig Surface tension sigma
                                                 ma  in the two phase
                                                     region [N/m]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends surfaceTension 
      "Surface tension in two phase region of water"
    algorithm 
      sigma := IF97_Utilities.surfaceTension(sat.Tsat);
    end surfaceTension;

* * * * *

[image100] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.pressure
==============================================================

return pressure of ideal gas

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return pressure).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                        Name Descript
                                                                   ion
  ----------------------------------------------------------- ---- --------
  AbsolutePressure                                            p    Pressure
                                                                   [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends pressure "return pressure of ideal gas"
    algorithm 
      p := state.p;
    end pressure;

* * * * *

[image101] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.temperature
=================================================================

return temperature of ideal gas

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return temperature).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                      Name Descripti
                                                                 on
  --------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---------
  Temperature                                               T    Temperatu
                                                                 re
                                                                 [K]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends temperature 
      "return temperature of ideal gas"
    algorithm 
      T := state.T;
    end temperature;

* * * * *

[image102] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density
=============================================================

return density of ideal gas

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return density).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                     Name Descriptio
                                                                n
  -------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----------
  Density                                                  d    Density
                                                                [kg/m3]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends density "return density of ideal gas"
    algorithm 
      d := state.d;
    end density;

* * * * *

[image103] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEnthalpy
======================================================================

Return specific enthalpy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions), (Return
specific enthalpy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                                        h   Specific
                                                              enthalpy
                                                              [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificEnthalpy 
      "Return specific enthalpy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
    algorithm 
      h := state.h;
    end specificEnthalpy;

* * * * *

[image104] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificInternalEnergy
============================================================================

Return specific internal energy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions), (Return
specific internal energy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Nam Description
                                                       e   
  ---------------------------------------------------- --- ---------------
  SpecificEnergy                                       u   Specific
                                                           internal energy
                                                           [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificInternalEnergy 
      "Return specific internal energy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
    algorithm 
      u := state.h  - state.p/state.d;
    end specificInternalEnergy;

* * * * *

[image105] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificGibbsEnergy
=========================================================================

Return specific Gibbs energy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions), (Return
specific Gibbs energy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Description
                                                        e   
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- --------------
  SpecificEnergy                                        g   Specific Gibbs
                                                            energy [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificGibbsEnergy 
      "Return specific Gibbs energy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
    algorithm 
      g := state.h - state.T*specificEntropy(state);
    end specificGibbsEnergy;

* * * * *

[image106] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificHelmholtzEnergy
=============================================================================

Return specific Helmholtz energy

Information
-----------

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Function (Icon for functions), (Return
specific Helmholtz energy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                 Nam Description
                                                       e   
  ---------------------------------------------------- --- ---------------
  SpecificEnergy                                       f   Specific
                                                           Helmholtz
                                                           energy [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificHelmholtzEnergy 
      "Return specific Helmholtz energy"
      extends Modelica.Icons.Function;
    algorithm 
      f := state.h - state.p/state.d - state.T*specificEntropy(state);
    end specificHelmholtzEnergy;

* * * * *

[image107] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificEntropy
=====================================================================

specific entropy of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return specific entropy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Nam Description
                                                         e   
  ------------------------------------------------------ --- -------------
  SpecificEntropy                                        s   Specific
                                                             entropy
                                                             [J/(kg.K)]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificEntropy 
      "specific entropy of water"
    algorithm 
      if dT_explicit then
        s := IF97_Utilities.s_dT(state.d, state.T, state.phase, Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        s := IF97_Utilities.s_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        s := IF97_Utilities.s_ph(state.p, state.h, state.phase, Region);
      end if;
    end specificEntropy;

* * * * *

[image108] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificHeatCapacityCp
============================================================================

specific heat capacity at constant pressure of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return specific heat capacity at constant pressure).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Description
                                                   e   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --------------------
  SpecificHeatCapacity                             cp  Specific heat
                                                       capacity at constant
                                                       pressure [J/(kg.K)]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificHeatCapacityCp 
      "specific heat capacity at constant pressure of water"
    algorithm 
      if dT_explicit then
        cp := IF97_Utilities.cp_dT(state.d, state.T, Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        cp := IF97_Utilities.cp_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        cp := IF97_Utilities.cp_ph(state.p, state.h, Region);
      end if;
    end specificHeatCapacityCp;

* * * * *

[image109] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.specificHeatCapacityCv
============================================================================

specific heat capacity at constant volume of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return specific heat capacity at constant volume).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Description
                                                   e   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --------------------
  SpecificHeatCapacity                             cv  Specific heat
                                                       capacity at constant
                                                       volume [J/(kg.K)]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends specificHeatCapacityCv 
      "specific heat capacity at constant volume of water"
    algorithm 
      if dT_explicit then
        cv := IF97_Utilities.cv_dT(state.d, state.T, state.phase, Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        cv := IF97_Utilities.cv_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        cv := IF97_Utilities.cv_ph(state.p, state.h, state.phase, Region);
      end if;
    end specificHeatCapacityCv;

* * * * *

[image110] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isentropicExponent
========================================================================

Return isentropic exponent

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return isentropic exponent).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---- -----------
  IsentropicExponent                                      gamm Isentropic
                                                          a    exponent
                                                               [1]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends isentropicExponent 
      "Return isentropic exponent"
    algorithm 
      if dT_explicit then
        gamma := IF97_Utilities.isentropicExponent_dT(state.d, state.T,
            state.phase, Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        gamma := IF97_Utilities.isentropicExponent_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        gamma := IF97_Utilities.isentropicExponent_ph(state.p, state.h,
            state.phase, Region);
      end if;
    end isentropicExponent;

* * * * *

[image111] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isothermalCompressibility
===============================================================================

Isothermal compressibility of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return overall the isothermal compressibility factor).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------
  IsothermalCompressibility                        kapp Isothermal
                                                   a    compressibility
                                                        [1/Pa]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends isothermalCompressibility 
      "Isothermal compressibility of water"
    algorithm 
      //    assert(state.phase <> 2, "isothermal compressibility can not be computed with 2-phase inputs!");
      if dT_explicit then
        kappa := IF97_Utilities.kappa_dT(state.d, state.T, state.phase, Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        kappa := IF97_Utilities.kappa_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        kappa := IF97_Utilities.kappa_ph(state.p, state.h, state.phase, Region);
      end if;
    end isothermalCompressibility;

* * * * *

[image112] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isobaricExpansionCoefficient
==================================================================================

isobaric expansion coefficient of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return overall the isobaric expansion coefficient beta).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Nam Description
                                                         e   
  ------------------------------------------------------ --- --------------
  IsobaricExpansionCoefficient                           bet Isobaric
                                                         a   expansion
                                                             coefficient
                                                             [1/K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends isobaricExpansionCoefficient 
      "isobaric expansion coefficient of water"
    algorithm 
      //    assert(state.phase <> 2, "the isobaric expansion coefficient can not be computed with 2-phase inputs!");
      if dT_explicit then
        beta := IF97_Utilities.beta_dT(state.d, state.T, state.phase, Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        beta := IF97_Utilities.beta_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        beta := IF97_Utilities.beta_ph(state.p, state.h, state.phase, Region);
      end if;
    end isobaricExpansionCoefficient;

* * * * *

[image113] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.velocityOfSound
=====================================================================

Return velocity of sound as a function of the thermodynamic state record

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return velocity of sound).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  VelocityOfSound                                         a   Velocity of
                                                              sound [m/s]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends velocityOfSound 
      "Return velocity of sound as a function of the thermodynamic state record"
    algorithm 
      if dT_explicit then
        a := IF97_Utilities.velocityOfSound_dT(state.d, state.T, state.phase,
          Region);
      elseif pT_explicit then
        a := IF97_Utilities.velocityOfSound_pT(state.p, state.T, Region);
      else
        a := IF97_Utilities.velocityOfSound_ph(state.p, state.h, state.phase,
          Region);
      end if;
    end velocityOfSound;

* * * * *

[image114] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.isentropicEnthalpy
========================================================================

compute h(s,p)

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return isentropic enthalpy).

Inputs
------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Name   Defa Description
                                                          ult  
  ------------------------------------------------ ------ ---- -----------
  AbsolutePressure                                 p_down      downstream
                                                   stream      pressure
                                                               [Pa]

  ThermodynamicState                               refSta      reference
                                                   te          state for
                                                               entropy
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ ---- -------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                                       h_is Isentropic
                                                              enthalpy
                                                              [J/kg]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends isentropicEnthalpy "compute h(s,p)"
    algorithm 
      h_is := IF97_Utilities.isentropicEnthalpy(p_downstream, specificEntropy(
        refState), 0);
    end isentropicEnthalpy;

* * * * *

[image115] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_derh_p
====================================================================

density derivative by specific enthalpy

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return density derivative w.r.t. specific enthalpy at
constant pressure).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                             Nam Description
                                                   e   
  ------------------------------------------------ --- --------------------
  DerDensityByEnthalpy                             ddh Density derivative
                                                   p   w.r.t. specific
                                                       enthalpy [kg.s2/m5]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends density_derh_p 
      "density derivative by specific enthalpy"
    algorithm 
      ddhp := IF97_Utilities.ddhp(state.p, state.h, state.phase, Region);
    end density_derh_p;

* * * * *

[image116] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.density_derp_h
====================================================================

density derivative by pressure

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return density derivative w.r.t. pressure at const
specific enthalpy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Defa Description
                                                      e   ult  
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                  sta      thermodynami
                                                      te       c
                                                               state record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Description
                                                      e   
  --------------------------------------------------- --- -----------------
  DerDensityByPressure                                ddp Density
                                                      h   derivative w.r.t.
                                                          pressure [s2/m2]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends density_derp_h 
      "density derivative by pressure"
    algorithm 
      ddph := IF97_Utilities.ddph(state.p, state.h, state.phase, Region);
    end density_derp_h;

* * * * *

[image117] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.bubbleEnthalpy
====================================================================

boiling curve specific enthalpy of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return bubble point specific enthalpy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Name Description
  -------------------------------------------- ---- -----------------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                             hl   boiling curve specific
                                                    enthalpy [J/kg]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends bubbleEnthalpy 
      "boiling curve specific enthalpy of water"
    algorithm 
      hl := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.hl_p(sat.psat);
    end bubbleEnthalpy;

* * * * *

[image118] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dewEnthalpy
=================================================================

dew curve specific enthalpy of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return dew point specific enthalpy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                          Name Description
  --------------------------------------------- ---- ---------------------
  SpecificEnthalpy                              hv   dew curve specific
                                                     enthalpy [J/kg]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dewEnthalpy 
      "dew curve specific enthalpy of water"
    algorithm 
      hv := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.hv_p(sat.psat);
    end dewEnthalpy;

* * * * *

[image119] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.bubbleEntropy
===================================================================

boiling curve specific entropy of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return bubble point specific entropy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                       Name Description
  ------------------------------------------ ---- ------------------------
  SpecificEntropy                            sl   boiling curve specific
                                                  entropy [J/(kg.K)]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends bubbleEntropy 
      "boiling curve specific entropy of water"
    algorithm 
      sl := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.sl_p(sat.psat);
    end bubbleEntropy;

* * * * *

[image120] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dewEntropy
================================================================

dew curve specific entropy of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return dew point specific entropy).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Description
  ------------------------------------------- ---- -----------------------
  SpecificEntropy                             sv   dew curve specific
                                                   entropy [J/(kg.K)]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dewEntropy 
      "dew curve specific entropy of water"
    algorithm 
      sv := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.sv_p(sat.psat);
    end dewEntropy;

* * * * *

[image121] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.bubbleDensity
===================================================================

boiling curve specific density of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return bubble point density).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Name Description
  --------------------------------------------------- ---- ----------------
  Density                                             dl   boiling curve
                                                           density [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends bubbleDensity 
      "boiling curve specific density of water"
    algorithm 
      if ph_explicit or pT_explicit then
        dl := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.rhol_p(sat.psat);
      else
        dl := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.rhol_T(sat.Tsat);
      end if;
    end bubbleDensity;

* * * * *

[image122] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dewDensity
================================================================

dew curve specific density of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return dew point density).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Name Description
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---- --------------
  Density                                               dv   dew curve
                                                             density
                                                             [kg/m3]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dewDensity 
      "dew curve specific density of water"
    algorithm 
      if ph_explicit or pT_explicit then
        dv := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.rhov_p(sat.psat);
      else
        dv := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.rhov_T(sat.Tsat);
      end if;
    end dewDensity;

* * * * *

[image123] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.saturationTemperature
===========================================================================

saturation temperature of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return saturation temperature).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Defau Descrip
                                                          e   lt    tion
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ----- -------
  AbsolutePressure                                        p         pressur
                                                                    e
                                                                    [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Name Description
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---- --------------
  Temperature                                           T    saturation
                                                             temperature
                                                             [K]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends saturationTemperature 
      "saturation temperature of water"
    algorithm 
      T := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Basic.tsat(p);
    end saturationTemperature;

* * * * *

[image124] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.saturationTemperature_derp
================================================================================

derivative of saturation temperature w.r.t. pressure

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return derivative of saturation temperature w.r.t.
pressure).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Defau Descrip
                                                          e   lt    tion
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ----- -------
  AbsolutePressure                                        p         pressur
                                                                    e
                                                                    [Pa]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  Type     Name     Description
  -------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Real     dTp      derivative of saturation temperature w.r.t. pressure

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends saturationTemperature_derp 
      "derivative of saturation temperature w.r.t. pressure"
    algorithm 
      dTp := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Basic.dtsatofp(p);
    end saturationTemperature_derp;

* * * * *

[image125] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.saturationPressure
========================================================================

saturation pressure of water

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return saturation pressure).

Inputs
------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Name Defau Descripti
                                                             lt    on
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---------
  Temperature                                           T          temperatu
                                                                   re
                                                                   [K]
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                    Nam Description
                                                          e   
  ------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------
  AbsolutePressure                                        p   saturation
                                                              pressure
                                                              [Pa]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends saturationPressure 
      "saturation pressure of water"
    algorithm 
      p := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Basic.psat(T);
    end saturationPressure;

* * * * *

[image126] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dBubbleDensity_dPressure
==============================================================================

bubble point density derivative

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return bubble point density derivative).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                Nam Description
                                                      e   
  --------------------------------------------------- --- ----------------
  DerDensityByPressure                                ddl boiling curve
                                                      dp  density
                                                          derivative
                                                          [s2/m2]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dBubbleDensity_dPressure 
      "bubble point density derivative"
    algorithm 
      ddldp := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.drhol_dp(sat.psat);
    end dBubbleDensity_dPressure;

* * * * *

[image127] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dDewDensity_dPressure
===========================================================================

dew point density derivative

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return dew point density derivative).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                               Nam Description
                                                     e   
  -------------------------------------------------- --- -----------------
  DerDensityByPressure                               ddv saturated steam
                                                     dp  density
                                                         derivative
                                                         [s2/m2]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dDewDensity_dPressure 
      "dew point density derivative"
    algorithm 
      ddvdp := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.drhov_dp(sat.psat);
    end dDewDensity_dPressure;

* * * * *

[image128] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dBubbleEnthalpy_dPressure
===============================================================================

bubble point specific enthalpy derivative

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return bubble point specific enthalpy derivative).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Nam Description
                                                  e   
  ----------------------------------------------- --- --------------------
  DerEnthalpyByPressure                           dhl boiling curve
                                                  dp  specific enthalpy
                                                      derivative
                                                      [J.m.s2/kg2]
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dBubbleEnthalpy_dPressure 
      "bubble point specific enthalpy derivative"
    algorithm 
      dhldp := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.dhl_dp(sat.psat);
    end dBubbleEnthalpy_dPressure;

* * * * *

[image129] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.dDewEnthalpy_dPressure
============================================================================

dew point specific enthalpy derivative

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return dew point specific enthalpy derivative).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                  Nam Defa Descriptio
                                                        e   ult  n
  ----------------------------------------------------- --- ---- ----------
  SaturationProperties                                  sat      saturation
                                                                 property
                                                                 record
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                            Nam Description
                                                  e   
  ----------------------------------------------- --- ---------------------
  DerEnthalpyByPressure                           dhv saturated steam
                                                  dp  specific enthalpy
                                                      derivative
                                                      [J.m.s2/kg2]
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends dDewEnthalpy_dPressure 
      "dew point specific enthalpy derivative"
    algorithm 
      dhvdp := IF97_Utilities.BaseIF97.Regions.dhv_dp(sat.psat);
    end dDewEnthalpy_dPressure;

* * * * *

[image130] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_dTX
==================================================================

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of d, T, and optional
region

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return thermodynamic state as function of d, T and
composition X or Xi).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Nam Defau Description
                                              e   lt    
  ------------------------------------------- --- ----- -------------------
  Integer                                     reg 0     if 0, region is
                                              ion       unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this
                                                        input

  FixedPhase                                  pha 0     2 for two-phase, 1
                                              se        for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  Density                                     d         density [kg/m3]

  Temperature                                 T         Temperature [K]

  MassFraction                                X[: refer Mass fractions
                                              ]   ence_ [kg/kg]
                                                  X     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                     stat thermodynami
                                                         e    c
                                                              state record
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setState_dTX 
      "Return thermodynamic state of water as function of d, T, and optional region"
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
    algorithm 
      state := ThermodynamicState(
        d=d,
        T=T,
        phase= if region == 0 then IF97_Utilities.phase_dT(d,T) else if region == 4 then 2 else 1,
        h=specificEnthalpy_dT(d,T,region=region),
        p=pressure_dT(d,T,region=region));
    end setState_dTX;

* * * * *

[image131] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_phX
==================================================================

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, h, and optional
region

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return thermodynamic state as function of p, h and
composition X or Xi).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Nam Defau Description
                                              e   lt    
  ------------------------------------------- --- ----- -------------------
  Integer                                     reg 0     if 0, region is
                                              ion       unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this
                                                        input

  FixedPhase                                  pha 0     2 for two-phase, 1
                                              se        for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  AbsolutePressure                            p         Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEnthalpy                            h         Specific enthalpy
                                                        [J/kg]

  MassFraction                                X[: refer Mass fractions
                                              ]   ence_ [kg/kg]
                                                  X     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                     stat thermodynami
                                                         e    c
                                                              state record
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setState_phX 
      "Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, h, and optional region"
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
    algorithm 
      state := ThermodynamicState(
        d=density_ph(p,h,region=region),
        T=temperature_ph(p,h,region=region),
        phase=if region == 0 then IF97_Utilities.phase_ph(p,h) else if region == 4 then 2 else 1,
        h=h,
        p=p);
    end setState_phX;

* * * * *

[image132] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_psX
==================================================================

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, s, and optional
region

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return thermodynamic state as function of p, s and
composition X or Xi).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Nam Defau Description
                                              e   lt    
  ------------------------------------------- --- ----- -------------------
  Integer                                     reg 0     if 0, region is
                                              ion       unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this
                                                        input

  FixedPhase                                  pha 0     2 for two-phase, 1
                                              se        for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  AbsolutePressure                            p         Pressure [Pa]

  SpecificEntropy                             s         Specific entropy
                                                        [J/(kg.K)]

  MassFraction                                X[: refer Mass fractions
                                              ]   ence_ [kg/kg]
                                                  X     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                     stat thermodynami
                                                         e    c
                                                              state record
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setState_psX 
      "Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, s, and optional region"
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
    algorithm 
      state := ThermodynamicState(
        d=density_ps(p,s,region=region),
        T=temperature_ps(p,s,region=region),
        phase=IF97_Utilities.phase_ps(p,s),
        h=specificEnthalpy_ps(p,s,region=region),
        p=p);
    end setState_psX;

* * * * *

[image133] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setState_pTX
==================================================================

Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, T, and optional
region

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return thermodynamic state as function of p, T and
composition X or Xi).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Nam Defau Description
                                              e   lt    
  ------------------------------------------- --- ----- -------------------
  Integer                                     reg 0     if 0, region is
                                              ion       unknown, otherwise
                                                        known and this
                                                        input

  FixedPhase                                  pha 0     2 for two-phase, 1
                                              se        for one-phase, 0 if
                                                        not known

  AbsolutePressure                            p         Pressure [Pa]

  Temperature                                 T         Temperature [K]

  MassFraction                                X[: refer Mass fractions
                                              ]   ence_ [kg/kg]
                                                  X     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                                   Name Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ ---- ------------
  ThermodynamicState                                     stat thermodynami
                                                         e    c
                                                              state record
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setState_pTX 
      "Return thermodynamic state of water as function of p, T, and optional region"
      input Integer region=0 
        "if 0, region is unknown, otherwise known and this input";
    algorithm 
      state := ThermodynamicState(
        d=density_pT(p,T,region=region),
        T=T,
        phase=1,
        h=specificEnthalpy_pT(p,T,region=region),
        p=p);
    end setState_pTX;

* * * * *

[image134] Modelica.Media.Water.WaterIF97_fixedregion.setSmoothState
====================================================================

Return thermodynamic state so that it smoothly approximates: if x > 0
then state_a else state_b

Information
-----------

Extends from (Return thermodynamic state so that it smoothly
approximates: if x > 0 then state_a else state_b).

Inputs
------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                        Name Def Description
                                                   aul 
                                                   t   
  ------------------------------------------- ---- --- --------------------
  Real                                        x        m_flow or dp

  ThermodynamicState                          stat     Thermodynamic state
                                              e_a      if x > 0

  ThermodynamicState                          stat     Thermodynamic state
                                              e_b      if x < 0

  Real                                        x_sm     Smooth transition in
                                              all      the region -x_small
                                                       < x < x_small
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Outputs
-------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Type                                         Nam Description
                                               e   
  -------------------------------------------- --- ------------------------
  ThermodynamicState                           sta Smooth thermodynamic
                                               te  state for all x
                                                   (continuous and
                                                   differentiable)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Modelica definition
-------------------

    redeclare function extends setSmoothState 
      "Return thermodynamic state so that it smoothly approximates: if x > 0 then state_a else state_b"
    import Modelica.Media.Common.smoothStep;
    algorithm 
      state :=ThermodynamicState(
        p=smoothStep(x, state_a.p, state_b.p, x_small),
        h=smoothStep(x, state_a.h, state_b.h, x_small),
        d=density_ph(smoothStep(x, state_a.p, state_b.p, x_small),
                     smoothStep(x, state_a.h, state_b.h, x_small)),
        T=temperature_ph(smoothStep(x, state_a.p, state_b.p, x_small),
                         smoothStep(x, state_a.h, state_b.h, x_small)),
        phase=0);
    end setSmoothState;

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:31:35 2010.
